(7) A servant of an inferior of a friend of a man's enemy is never persecuted by that man; (8) A friend of a superior of the master of a man's victim is that man's enemy; (9) An enemy of a persecutor of a servant of a man's father is that man's friend. The Problem is to deduce some fact about great-grandsons. [N.B. In this Problem, it is assumed that all the men, here referred to, live in the same town, and that every pair of them are either "friends" or "enemies," that every pair are related as "senior and junior", "superior and inferior", and that certain pairs are related as "creditor and debtor", "father and son", "master and servant", "persecutor and victim", "uncle and nephew".] 9. "Jack Sprat could eat no fat: His wife could eat no lean: And so, between them both, They licked the platter clean." Solve this as a Sorites-Problem, taking lines 3 and 4 as the Conclusion to be proved. It is permitted to use, as Premisses, not only all that is here _asserted_, but also all that we may reasonably understand to be _implied_. pg195 NOTES TO APPENDIX. (A) [See p. 167, line 6.] It may, perhaps, occur to the Reader, who has studied Formal Logic that the argument, here applied to the Propositions I and E, will apply equally well to the Propositions I and A (since, in the ordinary text-books, the Propositions "All xy are z" and "Some xy are not z" are regarded as Contradictories). Hence it may appear to him that the argument might have been put as follows:-- "We now have I and A 'asserting.' Hence, if the Proposition 'All xy are z' be true, some things exist with the Attributes x and y: i.e. 'Some x are y.' "Also we know that, if the Proposition 'Some xy are not-z' be true the same result follows. "But these two Propositions are Contradictories, so that one or other of them _must_ be true. Hence this result is always true: i.e. the Proposition 'Some x are y' is _always_ true! "_Quod est absurdum._ Hence I _cannot_ assert." This matter will be discussed in Part II; but I may as well give here what seems to me to be an irresistable proof that this view (that _A_ and _I_ are Contradictories), though adopted in the ordinary text-books, is untenable. The proof is
