the house is ill. 10. Umbrellas are useful on a journey; What is useless on a journey should be left behind. 11. Audible music causes vibration in the air; Inaudible music is not worth paying for. 12. Some holidays are rainy; Rainy days are tiresome. 13. No Frenchmen like plumpudding; All Englishmen like plumpudding. 14. No portrait of a lady, that makes her simper or scowl, is satisfactory; No photograph of a lady ever fails to make her simper or scowl. 15. All pale people are phlegmatic; No one looks poetical unless he is pale. 16. No old misers are cheerful; Some old misers are thin. 17. No one, who exercises self-control, fails to keep his temper; Some judges lose their tempers. pg102 18. All pigs are fat; Nothing that is fed on barley-water is fat. 19. All rabbits, that are not greedy, are black; No old rabbits are free from greediness. 20. Some pictures are not first attempts; No first attempts are really good. 21. I never neglect important business; Your business is unimportant. 22. Some lessons are difficult; What is difficult needs attention. 23. All clever people are popular; All obliging people are popular. 24. Thoughtless people do mischief; No thoughtful person forgets a promise. 25. Pigs cannot fly; Pigs are greedy. 26. All soldiers march well; Some babies are not soldiers. 27. No bride-cakes are wholesome; What is unwholesome should be avoided. 28. John is industrious; No industrious people are unhappy. 29. No philosophers are conceited; Some conceited persons are not gamblers. 30. Some excise laws are unjust; All the laws passed last week relate to excise. 31. No military men write poetry; None of my lodgers are civilians. 32. No medicine is nice; Senna is a medicine. 33. Some circulars are not read with pleasure; No begging-letters are read with pleasure. 34. All Britons are brave; No sailors are cowards. 35. Nothing intelligible ever puzzles _me_; Logic puzzles me. 36. Some pigs are wild; All pigs are fat. pg103 37. All wasps are unfriendly; All unfriendly creatures are unwelcome. 38. No old rabbits are greedy; All black rabbits are greedy. 39. Some eggs are hard-boiled; No eggs are uncrackable. 40. No antelope is ungraceful; Graceful creatures delight the eye. 41. All well-fed canaries sing loud; No canary is melancholy if it sings loud. 42. Some poetry is original; No original work is producible at will. 43.
