he’d do almost anything you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose it were nine o’clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons: you’d only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one, time for dinner!” (“I only wish it was,” the March Hare said to itself in a whisper.) “That would be grand, certainly,” said Alice thoughtfully: “but then—I shouldn’t be hungry for it, you know.” “Not at first, perhaps,” said the Hatter: “but you could keep it to half-past one as long as you liked.” “Is that the way _you_ manage?” Alice asked. The Hatter shook his head mournfully. “Not I!” he replied. “We quarrelled last March—just before _he_ went mad, you know—” (pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) “—it was at the great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing ‘Twinkle, twinkle, little bat! How I wonder what you’re at!’ You know the song, perhaps?” “I’ve heard something like it,” said Alice. “It goes on, you know,” the Hatter continued, “in this way:— ‘Up above the world you fly, Like a tea-tray in the sky. Twinkle, twinkle—’” Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep “_Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle_—” and went on so long that they had to pinch it to make it stop. “Well, I’d hardly finished the first verse,” said the Hatter, “when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, ‘He’s murdering the time! Off with his head!’” “How dreadfully savage!” exclaimed Alice. “And ever since that,” the Hatter went on in a mournful tone, “he won’t do a thing I ask! It’s always six o’clock now.” A bright idea came into Alice’s head. “Is that the reason so many tea-things are put out here?” she asked. “Yes, that’s it,” said the Hatter with a sigh: “it’s always tea-time, and we’ve no time to wash the things between whiles.” “Then you keep moving round, I suppose?” said Alice. “Exactly so,” said the Hatter: “as the things get used up.” “But what happens when you come to the beginning again?” Alice ventured to ask. “Suppose we change the subject,” the March Hare interrupted, yawning. “I’m getting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story.” “I’m afraid I don’t know one,” said Alice, rather alarmed at the proposal. “Then the Dormouse shall!”
