to call her attention. I believe I was half an hour this morning shut up with my housekeeper.” “But every thing of that kind,” said Emma, “will soon be in so regular a train—” “Well,” said Mrs. Elton, laughing, “we shall see.” Emma, finding her so determined upon neglecting her music, had nothing more to say; and, after a moment’s pause, Mrs. Elton chose another subject. “We have been calling at Randalls,” said she, “and found them both at home; and very pleasant people they seem to be. I like them extremely. Mr. Weston seems an excellent creature—quite a first-rate favourite with me already, I assure you. And _she_ appears so truly good—there is something so motherly and kind-hearted about her, that it wins upon one directly. She was your governess, I think?” Emma was almost too much astonished to answer; but Mrs. Elton hardly waited for the affirmative before she went on. “Having understood as much, I was rather astonished to find her so very lady-like! But she is really quite the gentlewoman.” “Mrs. Weston’s manners,” said Emma, “were always particularly good. Their propriety, simplicity, and elegance, would make them the safest model for any young woman.” “And who do you think came in while we were there?” Emma was quite at a loss. The tone implied some old acquaintance—and how could she possibly guess? “Knightley!” continued Mrs. Elton; “Knightley himself!—Was not it lucky?—for, not being within when he called the other day, I had never seen him before; and of course, as so particular a friend of Mr. E.’s, I had a great curiosity. ‘My friend Knightley’ had been so often mentioned, that I was really impatient to see him; and I must do my cara sposo the justice to say that he need not be ashamed of his friend. Knightley is quite the gentleman. I like him very much. Decidedly, I think, a very gentleman-like man.” Happily, it was now time to be gone. They were off; and Emma could breathe. “Insufferable woman!” was her immediate exclamation. “Worse than I had supposed. Absolutely insufferable! Knightley!—I could not have believed it. Knightley!—never seen him in her life before, and call him Knightley!—and discover that he is a gentleman! A little upstart, vulgar being, with her Mr. E., and her _caro_ _sposo_, and her resources, and all her airs of pert pretension and underbred finery. Actually to discover that
