keep secrets, I suppose?” said the matron, interposing, and returning, as she spoke, the searching look of Monks. “I know they will always keep _one_ till it’s found out,” said Monks. “And what may that be?” asked the matron. “The loss of their own good name,” replied Monks. “So, by the same rule, if a woman’s a party to a secret that might hang or transport her, I’m not afraid of her telling it to anybody; not I! Do you understand, mistress?” “No,” rejoined the matron, slightly colouring as she spoke. “Of course you don’t!” said Monks. “How should you?” Bestowing something half-way between a smile and a frown upon his two companions, and again beckoning them to follow him, the man hastened across the apartment, which was of considerable extent, but low in the roof. He was preparing to ascend a steep staircase, or rather ladder, leading to another floor of warehouses above: when a bright flash of lightning streamed down the aperture, and a peal of thunder followed, which shook the crazy building to its centre. “Hear it!” he cried, shrinking back. “Hear it! Rolling and crashing on as if it echoed through a thousand caverns where the devils were hiding from it. I hate the sound!” He remained silent for a few moments; and then, removing his hands suddenly from his face, showed, to the unspeakable discomposure of Mr. Bumble, that it was much distorted and discoloured. “These fits come over me, now and then,” said Monks, observing his alarm; “and thunder sometimes brings them on. Don’t mind me now; it’s all over for this once.” Thus speaking, he led the way up the ladder; and hastily closing the window-shutter of the room into which it led, lowered a lantern which hung at the end of a rope and pulley passed through one of the heavy beams in the ceiling: and which cast a dim light upon an old table and three chairs that were placed beneath it. “Now,” said Monks, when they had all three seated themselves, “the sooner we come to our business, the better for all. The woman know what it is, does she?” The question was addressed to Bumble; but his wife anticipated the reply, by intimating that she was perfectly acquainted with it. “He is right in saying that you were with this hag the night she died; and that she told you something—” “About the mother of the boy you named,” replied the matron interrupting him. “Yes.” “The first question is, of what nature was her communication?” said Monks. “That’s the second,” observed the woman with much deliberation. “The first is, what may the communication be worth?” “Who the devil can tell that, without knowing of what kind it is?” asked Monks. “Nobody better than you, I am persuaded,” answered Mrs. Bumble: who did not want for spirit, as her yoke-fellow could abundantly testify. “Humph!” said Monks significantly, and with a look of eager inquiry; “there may be money’s worth to get, eh?” “Perhaps there may,” was the composed reply. “Something that was taken from her,” said Monks. “Something that she wore. Something that—” “You had better bid,” interrupted Mrs. Bumble. “I have heard enough, already, to assure me that you are the man I ought to talk to.” Mr. Bumble, who had not yet been admitted by his better half into any greater share of the secret than he had originally possessed, listened to this dialogue with outstretched neck and distended eyes: which he directed towards his wife and Monks, by turns, in undisguised astonishment; increased, if possible, when the
