plot betwixt ’em. When I fell, I were in anger wi’ her, an’ hurryin on t’ be as onjust t’ her as oothers was t’ me. But in our judgments, like as in our doins, we mun bear and forbear. In my pain an’ trouble, lookin up yonder,—wi’ it shinin on me—I ha’ seen more clear, and ha’ made it my dyin prayer that aw th’ world may on’y coom toogether more, an’ get a better unnerstan’in o’ one another, than when I were in ’t my own weak seln.’ Louisa hearing what he said, bent over him on the opposite side to Rachael, so that he could see her. ‘You ha’ heard?’ he said, after a few moments’ silence. ‘I ha’ not forgot you, ledy.’ ‘Yes, Stephen, I have heard you. And your prayer is mine.’ ‘You ha’ a father. Will yo tak’ a message to him?’ ‘He is here,’ said Louisa, with dread. ‘Shall I bring him to you?’ ‘If yo please.’ Louisa returned with her father. Standing hand-in-hand, they both looked down upon the solemn countenance. ‘Sir, yo will clear me an’ mak my name good wi’ aw men. This I leave to yo.’ Mr. Gradgrind was troubled and asked how? ‘Sir,’ was the reply: ‘yor son will tell yo how. Ask him. I mak no charges: I leave none ahint me: not a single word. I ha’ seen an’ spok’n wi’ yor son, one night. I ask no more o’ yo than that yo clear me—an’ I trust to yo to do ’t.’ The bearers being now ready to carry him away, and the surgeon being anxious for his removal, those who had torches or lanterns, prepared to go in front of the litter. Before it was raised, and while they were arranging how to go, he said to Rachael, looking upward at the star: ‘Often as I coom to myseln, and found it shinin’ on me down there in my trouble, I thowt it were the star as guided to Our Saviour’s home. I awmust think it be the very star!’ They lifted him up, and he was overjoyed to find that they were about to take him in the direction whither the star seemed to him to lead. ‘Rachael, beloved lass! Don’t let go my hand. We may walk toogether t’night, my dear!’ ‘I will hold thy hand, and keep beside thee, Stephen, all the way.’ ‘Bless thee! Will soombody be pleased to coover my face!’ They carried him very gently along the fields, and down the lanes, and over the wide landscape; Rachael always holding the hand in hers. Very few whispers broke the mournful silence. It was soon a funeral procession. The star had shown him where to find the God of the poor; and through humility, and sorrow, and forgiveness, he had gone to his Redeemer’s rest. CHAPTER VII WHELP-HUNTING BEFORE the ring formed round the Old Hell Shaft was broken, one figure had disappeared from within it. Mr. Bounderby and his shadow had not stood near Louisa, who held her father’s arm, but in a retired place by themselves. When Mr. Gradgrind was summoned to the couch, Sissy, attentive to all that happened, slipped behind that wicked shadow—a sight in the horror of his face, if there had been eyes there for any sight but one—and whispered in his ear. Without turning his head, he conferred with her a few moments, and vanished. Thus the whelp had gone out of the circle before the people moved. When the father reached home, he sent a message to Mr. Bounderby’s, desiring his
