closed his book hastily; and was at once ushered into the imposing presence of the renowned Mr. Fang. The office was a front parlour, with a panelled wall. Mr. Fang sat behind a bar, at the upper end; and on one side of the door was a sort of wooden pen in which poor little Oliver was already deposited; trembling very much at the awfulness of the scene. Mr. Fang was a lean, long-backed, stiff-necked, middle-sized man, with no great quantity of hair, and what he had, growing on the back and sides of his head. His face was stern, and much flushed. If he were really not in the habit of drinking rather more than was exactly good for him, he might have brought action against his countenance for libel, and have recovered heavy damages. The old gentleman bowed respectfully; and advancing to the magistrate’s desk, said, suiting the action to the word, “That is my name and address, sir.” He then withdrew a pace or two; and, with another polite and gentlemanly inclination of the head, waited to be questioned. Now, it so happened that Mr. Fang was at that moment perusing a leading article in a newspaper of the morning, adverting to some recent decision of his, and commending him, for the three hundred and fiftieth time, to the special and particular notice of the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He was out of temper; and he looked up with an angry scowl. “Who are you?” said Mr. Fang. The old gentleman pointed, with some surprise, to his card. “Officer!” said Mr. Fang, tossing the card contemptuously away with the newspaper. “Who is this fellow?” “My name, sir,” said the old gentleman, speaking _like_ a gentleman, “my name, sir, is Brownlow. Permit me to inquire the name of the magistrate who offers a gratuitous and unprovoked insult to a respectable person, under the protection of the bench.” Saying this, Mr. Brownlow looked around the office as if in search of some person who would afford him the required information. “Officer!” said Mr. Fang, throwing the paper on one side, “what’s this fellow charged with?” “He’s not charged at all, your worship,” replied the officer. “He appears against this boy, your worship.” His worship knew this perfectly well; but it was a good annoyance, and a safe one. “Appears against the boy, does he?” said Mr. Fang, surveying Mr. Brownlow contemptuously from head to foot. “Swear him!” “Before I am sworn, I must beg to say one word,” said Mr. Brownlow; “and that is, that I really never, without actual experience, could have believed—” “Hold your tongue, sir!” said Mr. Fang, peremptorily. “I will not, sir!” replied the old gentleman. “Hold your tongue this instant, or I’ll have you turned out of the office!” said Mr. Fang. “You’re an insolent impertinent fellow. How dare you bully a magistrate!” “What!” exclaimed the old gentleman, reddening. “Swear this person!” said Fang to the clerk. “I’ll not hear another word. Swear him.” Mr. Brownlow’s indignation was greatly roused; but reflecting perhaps, that he might only injure the boy by giving vent to it, he suppressed his feelings and submitted to be sworn at once. “Now,” said Fang, “what’s the charge against this boy? What have you got to say, sir?” “I was standing at a bookstall—” Mr. Brownlow began. “Hold your tongue, sir,” said Mr. Fang. “Policeman! Where’s the policeman? Here, swear this policeman. Now, policeman, what is this?” The policeman, with becoming humility, related how he had taken the charge; how he had searched Oliver, and found nothing
