the more wealthy quarter of the town, the streets were comparatively deserted; and here her headlong progress excited a still greater curiosity in the stragglers whom she hurried past. Some quickened their pace behind, as though to see whither she was hastening at such an unusual rate; and a few made head upon her, and looked back, surprised at her undiminished speed; but they fell off one by one; and when she neared her place of destination, she was alone. It was a family hotel in a quiet but handsome street near Hyde Park. As the brilliant light of the lamp which burnt before its door, guided her to the spot, the clock struck eleven. She had loitered for a few paces as though irresolute, and making up her mind to advance; but the sound determined her, and she stepped into the hall. The porter’s seat was vacant. She looked round with an air of incertitude, and advanced towards the stairs. “Now, young woman!” said a smartly-dressed female, looking out from a door behind her, “who do you want here?” “A lady who is stopping in this house,” answered the girl. “A lady!” was the reply, accompanied with a scornful look. “What lady?” “Miss Maylie,” said Nancy. The young woman, who had by this time, noted her appearance, replied only by a look of virtuous disdain; and summoned a man to answer her. To him, Nancy repeated her request. “What name am I to say?” asked the waiter. “It’s of no use saying any,” replied Nancy. “Nor business?” said the man. “No, nor that neither,” rejoined the girl. “I must see the lady.” “Come!” said the man, pushing her towards the door. “None of this. Take yourself off.” “I shall be carried out if I go!” said the girl violently; “and I can make that a job that two of you won’t like to do. Isn’t there anybody here,” she said, looking round, “that will see a simple message carried for a poor wretch like me?” This appeal produced an effect on a good-tempered-faced man-cook, who with some of the other servants was looking on, and who stepped forward to interfere. “Take it up for her, Joe; can’t you?” said this person. “What’s the good?” replied the man. “You don’t suppose the young lady will see such as her; do you?” This allusion to Nancy’s doubtful character, raised a vast quantity of chaste wrath in the bosoms of four housemaids, who remarked, with great fervour, that the creature was a disgrace to her sex; and strongly advocated her being thrown, ruthlessly, into the kennel. “Do what you like with me,” said the girl, turning to the men again; “but do what I ask you first, and I ask you to give this message for God Almighty’s sake.” The soft-hearted cook added his intercession, and the result was that the man who had first appeared undertook its delivery. “What’s it to be?” said the man, with one foot on the stairs. “That a young woman earnestly asks to speak to Miss Maylie alone,” said Nancy; “and that if the lady will only hear the first word she has to say, she will know whether to hear her business, or to have her turned out of doors as an impostor.” “I say,” said the man, “you’re coming it strong!” “You give the message,” said the girl firmly; “and let me hear the answer.” The man ran upstairs. Nancy remained, pale and almost breathless, listening with quivering lip to the very audible expressions of scorn, of which the chaste housemaids were very prolific;
