it can’t be a put-up job, as we expected.” “Then it hasn’t been properly gone about,” said the Jew, turning pale with anger. “Don’t tell me!” “But I will tell you,” retorted Sikes. “Who are you that’s not to be told? I tell you that Toby Crackit has been hanging about the place for a fortnight, and he can’t get one of the servants in line.” “Do you mean to tell me, Bill,” said the Jew: softening as the other grew heated: “that neither of the two men in the house can be got over?” “Yes, I do mean to tell you so,” replied Sikes. “The old lady has had ’em these twenty years; and if you were to give ’em five hundred pound, they wouldn’t be in it.” “But do you mean to say, my dear,” remonstrated the Jew, “that the women can’t be got over?” “Not a bit of it,” replied Sikes. “Not by flash Toby Crackit?” said the Jew incredulously. “Think what women are, Bill,” “No; not even by flash Toby Crackit,” replied Sikes. “He says he’s worn sham whiskers, and a canary waistcoat, the whole blessed time he’s been loitering down there, and it’s all of no use.” “He should have tried mustachios and a pair of military trousers, my dear,” said the Jew. “So he did,” rejoined Sikes, “and they warn’t of no more use than the other plant.” The Jew looked blank at this information. After ruminating for some minutes with his chin sunk on his breast, he raised his head and said, with a deep sigh, that if flash Toby Crackit reported aright, he feared the game was up. “And yet,” said the old man, dropping his hands on his knees, “it’s a sad thing, my dear, to lose so much when we had set our hearts upon it.” “So it is,” said Mr. Sikes. “Worse luck!” A long silence ensued; during which the Jew was plunged in deep thought, with his face wrinkled into an expression of villainy perfectly demoniacal. Sikes eyed him furtively from time to time. Nancy, apparently fearful of irritating the housebreaker, sat with her eyes fixed upon the fire, as if she had been deaf to all that passed. “Fagin,” said Sikes, abruptly breaking the stillness that prevailed; “is it worth fifty shiners extra, if it’s safely done from the outside?” “Yes,” said the Jew, as suddenly rousing himself. “Is it a bargain?” inquired Sikes. “Yes, my dear, yes,” rejoined the Jew; his eyes glistening, and every muscle in his face working, with the excitement that the inquiry had awakened. “Then,” said Sikes, thrusting aside the Jew’s hand, with some disdain, “let it come off as soon as you like. Toby and me were over the garden-wall the night afore last, sounding the panels of the door and shutters. The crib’s barred up at night like a jail; but there’s one part we can crack, safe and softly.” “Which is that, Bill?” asked the Jew eagerly. “Why,” whispered Sikes, “as you cross the lawn—” “Yes?” said the Jew, bending his head forward, with his eyes almost starting out of it. “Umph!” cried Sikes, stopping short, as the girl, scarcely moving her head, looked suddenly round, and pointed for an instant to the Jew’s face. “Never mind which part it is. You can’t do it without me, I know; but it’s best to be on the safe side when one deals with you.” “As you like, my dear, as you like” replied the Jew. “Is there no help wanted, but yours and Toby’s?” “None,” said Sikes, “’cept a centre-bit
