wild animal. “Quite perfect,” rejoined Fagin, clapping him on the shoulder. “You’re a genius, my dear.” “Why, I suppose if I wasn’t, I shouldn’t be here,” replied Noah. “But, I say, she’ll be back if yer lose time.” “Now, what do you think?” said Fagin. “If you was to like my friend, could you do better than join him?” “Is he in a good way of business; that’s where it is!” responded Noah, winking one of his little eyes. “The top of the tree; employs a power of hands; has the very best society in the profession.” “Regular town-maders?” asked Mr. Claypole. “Not a countryman among ’em; and I don’t think he’d take you, even on my recommendation, if he didn’t run rather short of assistants just now,” replied Fagin. “Should I have to hand over?” said Noah, slapping his breeches-pocket. “It couldn’t possibly be done without,” replied Fagin, in a most decided manner. “Twenty pound, though—it’s a lot of money!” “Not when it’s in a note you can’t get rid of,” retorted Fagin. “Number and date taken, I suppose? Payment stopped at the Bank? Ah! It’s not worth much to him. It’ll have to go abroad, and he couldn’t sell it for a great deal in the market.” “When could I see him?” asked Noah doubtfully. “Tomorrow morning.” “Where?” “Here.” “Um!” said Noah. “What’s the wages?” “Live like a gentleman—board and lodging, pipes and spirits free—half of all you earn, and half of all the young woman earns,” replied Mr. Fagin. Whether Noah Claypole, whose rapacity was none of the least comprehensive, would have acceded even to these glowing terms, had he been a perfectly free agent, is very doubtful; but as he recollected that, in the event of his refusal, it was in the power of his new acquaintance to give him up to justice immediately (and more unlikely things had come to pass), he gradually relented, and said he thought that would suit him. “But, yer see,” observed Noah, “as she will be able to do a good deal, I should like to take something very light.” “A little fancy work?” suggested Fagin. “Ah! something of that sort,” replied Noah. “What do you think would suit me now? Something not too trying for the strength, and not very dangerous, you know. That’s the sort of thing!” “I heard you talk of something in the spy way upon the others, my dear,” said Fagin. “My friend wants somebody who would do that well, very much.” “Why, I did mention that, and I shouldn’t mind turning my hand to it sometimes,” rejoined Mr. Claypole slowly; “but it wouldn’t pay by itself, you know.” “That’s true!” observed the Jew, ruminating or pretending to ruminate. “No, it might not.” “What do you think, then?” asked Noah, anxiously regarding him. “Something in the sneaking way, where it was pretty sure work, and not much more risk than being at home.” “What do you think of the old ladies?” asked Fagin. “There’s a good deal of money made in snatching their bags and parcels, and running round the corner.” “Don’t they holler out a good deal, and scratch sometimes?” asked Noah, shaking his head. “I don’t think that would answer my purpose. Ain’t there any other line open?” “Stop!” said Fagin, laying his hand on Noah’s knee. “The kinchin lay.” “What’s that?” demanded Mr. Claypole. “The kinchins, my dear,” said Fagin, “is the young children that’s sent on errands by their mothers, with sixpences and shillings; and the lay is just to take their money away—they’ve always got it ready in their hands,—then
