on his person; and how that was all he knew about it. “Are there any witnesses?” inquired Mr. Fang. “None, your worship,” replied the policeman. Mr. Fang sat silent for some minutes, and then, turning round to the prosecutor, said in a towering passion. “Do you mean to state what your complaint against this boy is, man, or do you not? You have been sworn. Now, if you stand there, refusing to give evidence, I’ll punish you for disrespect to the bench; I will, by—” By what, or by whom, nobody knows, for the clerk and jailor coughed very loud, just at the right moment; and the former dropped a heavy book upon the floor, thus preventing the word from being heard—accidently, of course. With many interruptions, and repeated insults, Mr. Brownlow contrived to state his case; observing that, in the surprise of the moment, he had run after the boy because he had seen him running away; and expressing his hope that, if the magistrate should believe him, although not actually the thief, to be connected with the thieves, he would deal as leniently with him as justice would allow. “He has been hurt already,” said the old gentleman in conclusion. “And I fear,” he added, with great energy, looking towards the bar, “I really fear that he is ill.” “Oh! yes, I dare say!” said Mr. Fang, with a sneer. “Come, none of your tricks here, you young vagabond; they won’t do. What’s your name?” Oliver tried to reply but his tongue failed him. He was deadly pale; and the whole place seemed turning round and round. “What’s your name, you hardened scoundrel?” demanded Mr. Fang. “Officer, what’s his name?” This was addressed to a bluff old fellow, in a striped waistcoat, who was standing by the bar. He bent over Oliver, and repeated the inquiry; but finding him really incapable of understanding the question; and knowing that his not replying would only infuriate the magistrate the more, and add to the severity of his sentence; he hazarded a guess. “He says his name’s Tom White, your worship,” said the kind-hearted thief-taker. “Oh, he won’t speak out, won’t he?” said Fang. “Very well, very well. Where does he live?” “Where he can, your worship,” replied the officer; again pretending to receive Oliver’s answer. “Has he any parents?” inquired Mr. Fang. “He says they died in his infancy, your worship,” replied the officer: hazarding the usual reply. At this point of the inquiry, Oliver raised his head; and, looking round with imploring eyes, murmured a feeble prayer for a draught of water. “Stuff and nonsense!” said Mr. Fang: “don’t try to make a fool of me.” “I think he really is ill, your worship,” remonstrated the officer. “I know better,” said Mr. Fang. “Take care of him, officer,” said the old gentleman, raising his hands instinctively; “he’ll fall down.” “Stand away, officer,” cried Fang; “let him, if he likes.” Oliver availed himself of the kind permission, and fell to the floor in a fainting fit. The men in the office looked at each other, but no one dared to stir. “I knew he was shamming,” said Fang, as if this were incontestable proof of the fact. “Let him lie there; he’ll soon be tired of that.” “How do you propose to deal with the case, sir?” inquired the clerk in a low voice. “Summarily,” replied Mr. Fang. “He stands committed for three months—hard labour of course. Clear the office.” The door was opened for this purpose, and a couple of men were preparing to carry the insensible boy to
