a knowed this was all, I’d a learnt long ago.” “So would I,” said Joe. “It’s just nothing.” “Why, many a time I’ve looked at people smoking, and thought well I wish I could do that; but I never thought I could,” said Tom. “That’s just the way with me, hain’t it, Huck? You’ve heard me talk just that way—haven’t you, Huck? I’ll leave it to Huck if I haven’t.” “Yes—heaps of times,” said Huck. “Well, I have too,” said Tom; “oh, hundreds of times. Once down by the slaughter-house. Don’t you remember, Huck? Bob Tanner was there, and Johnny Miller, and Jeff Thatcher, when I said it. Don’t you remember, Huck, ’bout me saying that?” “Yes, that’s so,” said Huck. “That was the day after I lost a white alley. No, ’twas the day before.” “There—I told you so,” said Tom. “Huck recollects it.” “I bleeve I could smoke this pipe all day,” said Joe. “I don’t feel sick.” “Neither do I,” said Tom. “I could smoke it all day. But I bet you Jeff Thatcher couldn’t.” “Jeff Thatcher! Why, he’d keel over just with two draws. Just let him try it once. _He’d_ see!” “I bet he would. And Johnny Miller—I wish could see Johnny Miller tackle it once.” “Oh, don’t I!” said Joe. “Why, I bet you Johnny Miller couldn’t any more do this than nothing. Just one little snifter would fetch _him_.” “’Deed it would, Joe. Say—I wish the boys could see us now.” “So do I.” “Say—boys, don’t say anything about it, and some time when they’re around, I’ll come up to you and say, ‘Joe, got a pipe? I want a smoke.’ And you’ll say, kind of careless like, as if it warn’t anything, you’ll say, ‘Yes, I got my _old_ pipe, and another one, but my tobacker ain’t very good.’ And I’ll say, ‘Oh, that’s all right, if it’s _strong_ enough.’ And then you’ll out with the pipes, and we’ll light up just as ca’m, and then just see ’em look!” “By jings, that’ll be gay, Tom! I wish it was _now_!” “So do I! And when we tell ’em we learned when we was off pirating, won’t they wish they’d been along?” “Oh, I reckon not! I’ll just _bet_ they will!” So the talk ran on. But presently it began to flag a trifle, and grow disjointed. The silences widened; the expectoration marvellously increased. Every pore inside the boys’ cheeks became a spouting fountain; they could scarcely bail out the cellars under their tongues fast enough to prevent an inundation; little overflowings down their throats occurred in spite of all they could do, and sudden retchings followed every time. Both boys were looking very pale and miserable, now. Joe’s pipe dropped from his nerveless fingers. Tom’s followed. Both fountains were going furiously and both pumps bailing with might and main. Joe said feebly: “I’ve lost my knife. I reckon I better go and find it.” Tom said, with quivering lips and halting utterance: “I’ll help you. You go over that way and I’ll hunt around by the spring. No, you needn’t come, Huck—we can find it.” So Huck sat down again, and waited an hour. Then he found it lonesome, and went to find his comrades. They were wide apart in the woods, both very pale, both fast asleep. But something informed him that if they had had any trouble they had got rid of it. They were not talkative at supper that night. They had a humble look, and when Huck prepared his pipe after the meal and was going to
