seemed to settle and abide with Joe. The tick tried this, that, and the other course, and got as excited and as anxious as the boys themselves, but time and again just as he would have victory in his very grasp, so to speak, and Tom’s fingers would be twitching to begin, Joe’s pin would deftly head him off, and keep possession. At last Tom could stand it no longer. The temptation was too strong. So he reached out and lent a hand with his pin. Joe was angry in a moment. Said he: “Tom, you let him alone.” “I only just want to stir him up a little, Joe.” “No, sir, it ain’t fair; you just let him alone.” “Blame it, I ain’t going to stir him much.” “Let him alone, I tell you.” “I won’t!” “You shall—he’s on my side of the line.” “Look here, Joe Harper, whose is that tick?” “I don’t care whose tick he is—he’s on my side of the line, and you sha’n’t touch him.” “Well, I’ll just bet I will, though. He’s my tick and I’ll do what I blame please with him, or die!” A tremendous whack came down on Tom’s shoulders, and its duplicate on Joe’s; and for the space of two minutes the dust continued to fly from the two jackets and the whole school to enjoy it. The boys had been too absorbed to notice the hush that had stolen upon the school awhile before when the master came tiptoeing down the room and stood over them. He had contemplated a good part of the performance before he contributed his bit of variety to it. When school broke up at noon, Tom flew to Becky Thatcher, and whispered in her ear: “Put on your bonnet and let on you’re going home; and when you get to the corner, give the rest of ’em the slip, and turn down through the lane and come back. I’ll go the other way and come it over ’em the same way.” So the one went off with one group of scholars, and the other with another. In a little while the two met at the bottom of the lane, and when they reached the school they had it all to themselves. Then they sat together, with a slate before them, and Tom gave Becky the pencil and held her hand in his, guiding it, and so created another surprising house. When the interest in art began to wane, the two fell to talking. Tom was swimming in bliss. He said: “Do you love rats?” “No! I hate them!” “Well, I do, too—_live_ ones. But I mean dead ones, to swing round your head with a string.” “No, I don’t care for rats much, anyway. What I like is chewing-gum.” “Oh, I should say so! I wish I had some now.” “Do you? I’ve got some. I’ll let you chew it awhile, but you must give it back to me.” That was agreeable, so they chewed it turn about, and dangled their legs against the bench in excess of contentment. “Was you ever at a circus?” said Tom. “Yes, and my pa’s going to take me again some time, if I’m good.” “I been to the circus three or four times—lots of times. Church ain’t shucks to a circus. There’s things going on at a circus all the time. I’m going to be a clown in a circus when I grow up.” “Oh, are you! That will be nice. They’re so lovely, all spotted up.” “Yes, that’s so. And they get slathers of money—most
