won’t be hard to find. Now there was a voice—a very low voice—Injun Joe’s: “Damn her, maybe she’s got company—there’s lights, late as it is.” “I can’t see any.” This was that stranger’s voice—the stranger of the haunted house. A deadly chill went to Huck’s heart—this, then, was the “revenge” job! His thought was, to fly. Then he remembered that the Widow Douglas had been kind to him more than once, and maybe these men were going to murder her. He wished he dared venture to warn her; but he knew he didn’t dare—they might come and catch him. He thought all this and more in the moment that elapsed between the stranger’s remark and Injun Joe’s next—which was— “Because the bush is in your way. Now—this way—now you see, don’t you?” “Yes. Well, there _is_ company there, I reckon. Better give it up.” “Give it up, and I just leaving this country forever! Give it up and maybe never have another chance. I tell you again, as I’ve told you before, I don’t care for her swag—you may have it. But her husband was rough on me—many times he was rough on me—and mainly he was the justice of the peace that jugged me for a vagrant. And that ain’t all. It ain’t a millionth part of it! He had me _horsewhipped_!—horsewhipped in front of the jail, like a nigger!—with all the town looking on! _Horsewhipped_!—do you understand? He took advantage of me and died. But I’ll take it out of _her_.” “Oh, don’t kill her! Don’t do that!” “Kill? Who said anything about killing? I would kill _him_ if he was here; but not her. When you want to get revenge on a woman you don’t kill her—bosh! you go for her looks. You slit her nostrils—you notch her ears like a sow!” “By God, that’s—” “Keep your opinion to yourself! It will be safest for you. I’ll tie her to the bed. If she bleeds to death, is that my fault? I’ll not cry, if she does. My friend, you’ll help me in this thing—for _my_ sake—that’s why you’re here—I mightn’t be able alone. If you flinch, I’ll kill you. Do you understand that? And if I have to kill you, I’ll kill her—and then I reckon nobody’ll ever know much about who done this business.” “Well, if it’s got to be done, let’s get at it. The quicker the better—I’m all in a shiver.” “Do it _now_? And company there? Look here—I’ll get suspicious of you, first thing you know. No—we’ll wait till the lights are out—there’s no hurry.” Huck felt that a silence was going to ensue—a thing still more awful than any amount of murderous talk; so he held his breath and stepped gingerly back; planted his foot carefully and firmly, after balancing, one-legged, in a precarious way and almost toppling over, first on one side and then on the other. He took another step back, with the same elaboration and the same risks; then another and another, and—a twig snapped under his foot! His breath stopped and he listened. There was no sound—the stillness was perfect. His gratitude was measureless. Now he turned in his tracks, between the walls of sumach bushes—turned himself as carefully as if he were a ship—and then stepped quickly but cautiously along. When he emerged at the quarry he felt secure, and so he picked up his nimble heels and flew. Down, down he sped, till he reached the Welshman’s. He banged at the door, and presently the heads of the old man and his two stalwart sons
