with it. “What made you think I’d like it?” “Well, I don’t know. Only, they—they—told me you would.” “_They_ told you I would. Whoever told you’s _another_ lunatic. I never heard the beat of it. Who’s _they?_” “Why, everybody. They all said so, m’am.” It was all she could do to hold in; and her eyes snapped, and her fingers worked like she wanted to scratch him; and she says: “Who’s ‘everybody’? Out with their names, or ther’ll be an idiot short.” He got up and looked distressed, and fumbled his hat, and says: “I’m sorry, and I warn’t expecting it. They told me to. They all told me to. They all said, kiss her; and said she’d like it. They all said it—every one of them. But I’m sorry, m’am, and I won’t do it no more—I won’t, honest.” “You won’t, won’t you? Well, I sh’d _reckon_ you won’t!” “No’m, I’m honest about it; I won’t ever do it again—till you ask me.” “Till I _ask_ you! Well, I never see the beat of it in my born days! I lay you’ll be the Methusalem-numskull of creation before ever I ask you—or the likes of you.” “Well,” he says, “it does surprise me so. I can’t make it out, somehow. They said you would, and I thought you would. But—” He stopped and looked around slow, like he wished he could run across a friendly eye somewheres, and fetched up on the old gentleman’s, and says, “Didn’t _you_ think she’d like me to kiss her, sir?” “Why, no; I—I—well, no, I b’lieve I didn’t.” Then he looks on around the same way to me, and says: “Tom, didn’t _you_ think Aunt Sally ’d open out her arms and say, ‘Sid Sawyer—’” “My land!” she says, breaking in and jumping for him, “you impudent young rascal, to fool a body so—” and was going to hug him, but he fended her off, and says: “No, not till you’ve asked me first.” So she didn’t lose no time, but asked him; and hugged him and kissed him over and over again, and then turned him over to the old man, and he took what was left. And after they got a little quiet again she says: “Why, dear me, I never see such a surprise. We warn’t looking for _you_ at all, but only Tom. Sis never wrote to me about anybody coming but him.” “It’s because it warn’t _intended_ for any of us to come but Tom,” he says; “but I begged and begged, and at the last minute she let me come, too; so, coming down the river, me and Tom thought it would be a first-rate surprise for him to come here to the house first, and for me to by-and-by tag along and drop in, and let on to be a stranger. But it was a mistake, Aunt Sally. This ain’t no healthy place for a stranger to come.” “No—not impudent whelps, Sid. You ought to had your jaws boxed; I hain’t been so put out since I don’t know when. But I don’t care, I don’t mind the terms—I’d be willing to stand a thousand such jokes to have you here. Well, to think of that performance! I don’t deny it, I was most putrified with astonishment when you give me that smack.” We had dinner out in that broad open passage betwixt the house and the kitchen; and there was things enough on that table for seven families—and all hot, too; none of your flabby, tough meat that’s laid in a cupboard in a damp
