Sleep Tom’s Talk with his Aunt Muff Potter A Suspicious Incident Injun Joe’s two Victims In the Coils Peter Aunt Polly seeks Information A General Good Time Demoralized Joe Harper On Board Their First Prize The Pirates Ashore Wild Life The Pirate’s Bath The Pleasant Stroll The Search for the Drowned The Mysterious Writing River View What Tom Saw Tom Swims the River Taking Lessons The Pirates’ Egg Market Tom Looking for Joe’s Knife The Thunder Storm Terrible Slaughter The Mourner Tom’s Proudest Moment Amy Lawrence Tom tries to Remember The Hero A Flirtation Becky Retaliates A Sudden Frost Counter-irritation Aunt Polly Tom justified The Discovery Caught in the Act Tom Astonishes the School Literature Tom Declaims Examination Evening On Exhibition Prize Authors The Master’s Dilemma The School House The Cadet Happy for Two Days Enjoying the Vacation The Stolen Melons The Judge Visiting the Prisoner Tom Swears The Court Room The Detective Tom Dreams The Treasure The Private Conference A King; Poor Fellow! Business The Ha’nted House Injun Joe The Greatest and Best Hidden Treasures Unearthed The Boy’s Salvation Room No. 2 The Next Day’s Conference Treasures Uncle Jake Buck at Home The Haunted Room “Run for Your Life” McDougal’s Cave Inside the Cave Huck on Duty A Rousing Act Tail Piece The Welshman Result of a Sneeze Cornered Alarming Discoveries Tom and Becky stir up the Town Tom’s Marks Huck Questions the Widow Vampires Wonders of the Cave Attacked by Natives Despair The Wedding Cake A New Terror Daylight “Turn Out” to Receive Tom and Becky The Escape from the Cave Fate of the Ragged Man The Treasures Found Caught at Last Drop after Drop Having a Good Time A Business Trip “Got it at Last!” Tail Piece Widow Douglas Tom Backs his Statement Tail Piece Huck Transformed Comfortable Once More High up in Society Contentment PREFACE Most of the adventures recorded in this book really occurred; one or two were experiences of my own, the rest those of boys who were schoolmates of mine. Huck Finn is drawn from life; Tom Sawyer also, but not from an individual—he is a combination of the characteristics of three boys whom I knew, and therefore belongs to the composite order of architecture. The odd superstitions touched upon were all prevalent among children and slaves in the West at the period of this story—that is to say, thirty or forty years ago. Although my book is intended mainly for the entertainment of boys and girls, I hope it will not be shunned by men and women on that account, for part of my plan has been to try to pleasantly remind adults of what they once were themselves, and of how they felt and thought and talked, and what queer enterprises they sometimes engaged in. THE AUTHOR. HARTFORD, 1876. CHAPTER I “Tom!” No answer. “TOM!” No answer. “What’s gone with that boy, I wonder? You TOM!” No answer. The old lady pulled her spectacles down and looked over them about the room; then she put them up and looked out under them. She seldom or never looked _through_ them for so small a thing as a boy; they were her state pair, the pride of her heart, and were built for “style,” not service—she could have seen through a pair of stove-lids just as well. She looked perplexed for a moment, and then said, not fiercely, but still loud enough for the furniture to hear: “Well, I lay if I get hold of you I’ll—” She did not finish, for by this time she was bending down and punching under the
