glorious sport to be feasting in that wild, free way in the virgin forest of an unexplored and uninhabited island, far from the haunts of men, and they said they never would return to civilization. The climbing fire lit up their faces and threw its ruddy glare upon the pillared tree-trunks of their forest temple, and upon the varnished foliage and festooning vines. When the last crisp slice of bacon was gone, and the last allowance of corn pone devoured, the boys stretched themselves out on the grass, filled with contentment. They could have found a cooler place, but they would not deny themselves such a romantic feature as the roasting campfire. “_Ain’t_ it gay?” said Joe. “It’s _nuts_!” said Tom. “What would the boys say if they could see us?” “Say? Well, they’d just die to be here—hey, Hucky!” “I reckon so,” said Huckleberry; “anyways, I’m suited. I don’t want nothing better’n this. I don’t ever get enough to eat, gen’ally—and here they can’t come and pick at a feller and bullyrag him so.” “It’s just the life for me,” said Tom. “You don’t have to get up, mornings, and you don’t have to go to school, and wash, and all that blame foolishness. You see a pirate don’t have to do _anything_, Joe, when he’s ashore, but a hermit _he_ has to be praying considerable, and then he don’t have any fun, anyway, all by himself that way.” “Oh yes, that’s so,” said Joe, “but I hadn’t thought much about it, you know. I’d a good deal rather be a pirate, now that I’ve tried it.” “You see,” said Tom, “people don’t go much on hermits, nowadays, like they used to in old times, but a pirate’s always respected. And a hermit’s got to sleep on the hardest place he can find, and put sackcloth and ashes on his head, and stand out in the rain, and—” “What does he put sackcloth and ashes on his head for?” inquired Huck. “I dono. But they’ve _got_ to do it. Hermits always do. You’d have to do that if you was a hermit.” “Dern’d if I would,” said Huck. “Well, what would you do?” “I dono. But I wouldn’t do that.” “Why, Huck, you’d _have_ to. How’d you get around it?” “Why, I just wouldn’t stand it. I’d run away.” “Run away! Well, you _would_ be a nice old slouch of a hermit. You’d be a disgrace.” The Red-Handed made no response, being better employed. He had finished gouging out a cob, and now he fitted a weed stem to it, loaded it with tobacco, and was pressing a coal to the charge and blowing a cloud of fragrant smoke—he was in the full bloom of luxurious contentment. The other pirates envied him this majestic vice, and secretly resolved to acquire it shortly. Presently Huck said: “What does pirates have to do?” Tom said: “Oh, they have just a bully time—take ships and burn them, and get the money and bury it in awful places in their island where there’s ghosts and things to watch it, and kill everybody in the ships—make ’em walk a plank.” “And they carry the women to the island,” said Joe; “they don’t kill the women.” “No,” assented Tom, “they don’t kill the women—they’re too noble. And the women’s always beautiful, too.” “And don’t they wear the bulliest clothes! Oh no! All gold and silver and di’monds,” said Joe, with enthusiasm. “Who?” said Huck. “Why, the pirates.” Huck scanned his own clothing forlornly. “I reckon I ain’t dressed fitten for a pirate,” said he, with
