But they were off in a jiffy, those villains, and we after them, down through the woods. I judge we never touched them. They fired a shot apiece as they started, but their bullets whizzed by and didn’t do us any harm. As soon as we lost the sound of their feet we quit chasing, and went down and stirred up the constables. They got a posse together, and went off to guard the river bank, and as soon as it is light the sheriff and a gang are going to beat up the woods. My boys will be with them presently. I wish we had some sort of description of those rascals—’twould help a good deal. But you couldn’t see what they were like, in the dark, lad, I suppose?” “Oh yes; I saw them downtown and follered them.” “Splendid! Describe them—describe them, my boy!” “One’s the old deaf and dumb Spaniard that’s ben around here once or twice, and t’other’s a mean-looking, ragged—” “That’s enough, lad, we know the men! Happened on them in the woods back of the widow’s one day, and they slunk away. Off with you, boys, and tell the sheriff—get your breakfast tomorrow morning!” The Welshman’s sons departed at once. As they were leaving the room Huck sprang up and exclaimed: “Oh, please don’t tell _any_body it was me that blowed on them! Oh, please!” “All right if you say it, Huck, but you ought to have the credit of what you did.” “Oh no, no! Please don’t tell!” When the young men were gone, the old Welshman said: “They won’t tell—and I won’t. But why don’t you want it known?” Huck would not explain, further than to say that he already knew too much about one of those men and would not have the man know that he knew anything against him for the whole world—he would be killed for knowing it, sure. The old man promised secrecy once more, and said: “How did you come to follow these fellows, lad? Were they looking suspicious?” Huck was silent while he framed a duly cautious reply. Then he said: “Well, you see, I’m a kind of a hard lot,—least everybody says so, and I don’t see nothing agin it—and sometimes I can’t sleep much, on account of thinking about it and sort of trying to strike out a new way of doing. That was the way of it last night. I couldn’t sleep, and so I come along upstreet ’bout midnight, a-turning it all over, and when I got to that old shackly brick store by the Temperance Tavern, I backed up agin the wall to have another think. Well, just then along comes these two chaps slipping along close by me, with something under their arm, and I reckoned they’d stole it. One was a-smoking, and t’other one wanted a light; so they stopped right before me and the cigars lit up their faces and I see that the big one was the deaf and dumb Spaniard, by his white whiskers and the patch on his eye, and t’other one was a rusty, ragged-looking devil.” “Could you see the rags by the light of the cigars?” This staggered Huck for a moment. Then he said: “Well, I don’t know—but somehow it seems as if I did.” “Then they went on, and you—” “Follered ’em—yes. That was it. I wanted to see what was up—they sneaked along so. I dogged ’em to the widder’s stile, and stood in the dark and heard the ragged one beg for the widder, and the Spaniard swear he’d
