lawyers and gathering together of papers followed. These details and accompanying delays worked up an atmosphere of preparation that was as impressive as it was fascinating. Now a witness was called who testified that he found Muff Potter washing in the brook, at an early hour of the morning that the murder was discovered, and that he immediately sneaked away. After some further questioning, counsel for the prosecution said: “Take the witness.” The prisoner raised his eyes for a moment, but dropped them again when his own counsel said: “I have no questions to ask him.” The next witness proved the finding of the knife near the corpse. Counsel for the prosecution said: “Take the witness.” “I have no questions to ask him,” Potter’s lawyer replied. A third witness swore he had often seen the knife in Potter’s possession. “Take the witness.” Counsel for Potter declined to question him. The faces of the audience began to betray annoyance. Did this attorney mean to throw away his client’s life without an effort? Several witnesses deposed concerning Potter’s guilty behavior when brought to the scene of the murder. They were allowed to leave the stand without being cross-questioned. Every detail of the damaging circumstances that occurred in the graveyard upon that morning which all present remembered so well was brought out by credible witnesses, but none of them were cross-examined by Potter’s lawyer. The perplexity and dissatisfaction of the house expressed itself in murmurs and provoked a reproof from the bench. Counsel for the prosecution now said: “By the oaths of citizens whose simple word is above suspicion, we have fastened this awful crime, beyond all possibility of question, upon the unhappy prisoner at the bar. We rest our case here.” A groan escaped from poor Potter, and he put his face in his hands and rocked his body softly to and fro, while a painful silence reigned in the courtroom. Many men were moved, and many women’s compassion testified itself in tears. Counsel for the defence rose and said: “Your honor, in our remarks at the opening of this trial, we foreshadowed our purpose to prove that our client did this fearful deed while under the influence of a blind and irresponsible delirium produced by drink. We have changed our mind. We shall not offer that plea.” [Then to the clerk:] “Call Thomas Sawyer!” A puzzled amazement awoke in every face in the house, not even excepting Potter’s. Every eye fastened itself with wondering interest upon Tom as he rose and took his place upon the stand. The boy looked wild enough, for he was badly scared. The oath was administered. “Thomas Sawyer, where were you on the seventeenth of June, about the hour of midnight?” Tom glanced at Injun Joe’s iron face and his tongue failed him. The audience listened breathless, but the words refused to come. After a few moments, however, the boy got a little of his strength back, and managed to put enough of it into his voice to make part of the house hear: “In the graveyard!” “A little bit louder, please. Don’t be afraid. You were—” “In the graveyard.” A contemptuous smile flitted across Injun Joe’s face. “Were you anywhere near Horse Williams’ grave?” “Yes, sir.” “Speak up—just a trifle louder. How near were you?” “Near as I am to you.” “Were you hidden, or not?” “I was hid.” “Where?” “Behind the elms that’s on the edge of the grave.” Injun Joe gave a barely perceptible start. “Any one with you?” “Yes, sir. I went there with—” “Wait—wait a moment. Never mind mentioning your companion’s
