up and wandered along, hand in hand and hopeless. They tried to estimate how long they had been in the cave, but all they knew was that it seemed days and weeks, and yet it was plain that this could not be, for their candles were not gone yet. A long time after this—they could not tell how long—Tom said they must go softly and listen for dripping water—they must find a spring. They found one presently, and Tom said it was time to rest again. Both were cruelly tired, yet Becky said she thought she could go a little farther. She was surprised to hear Tom dissent. She could not understand it. They sat down, and Tom fastened his candle to the wall in front of them with some clay. Thought was soon busy; nothing was said for some time. Then Becky broke the silence: “Tom, I am so hungry!” Tom took something out of his pocket. “Do you remember this?” said he. Becky almost smiled. “It’s our wedding-cake, Tom.” “Yes—I wish it was as big as a barrel, for it’s all we’ve got.” “I saved it from the picnic for us to dream on, Tom, the way grownup people do with wedding-cake—but it’ll be our—” She dropped the sentence where it was. Tom divided the cake and Becky ate with good appetite, while Tom nibbled at his moiety. There was abundance of cold water to finish the feast with. By-and-by Becky suggested that they move on again. Tom was silent a moment. Then he said: “Becky, can you bear it if I tell you something?” Becky’s face paled, but she thought she could. “Well, then, Becky, we must stay here, where there’s water to drink. That little piece is our last candle!” Becky gave loose to tears and wailings. Tom did what he could to comfort her, but with little effect. At length Becky said: “Tom!” “Well, Becky?” “They’ll miss us and hunt for us!” “Yes, they will! Certainly they will!” “Maybe they’re hunting for us now, Tom.” “Why, I reckon maybe they are. I hope they are.” “When would they miss us, Tom?” “When they get back to the boat, I reckon.” “Tom, it might be dark then—would they notice we hadn’t come?” “I don’t know. But anyway, your mother would miss you as soon as they got home.” A frightened look in Becky’s face brought Tom to his senses and he saw that he had made a blunder. Becky was not to have gone home that night! The children became silent and thoughtful. In a moment a new burst of grief from Becky showed Tom that the thing in his mind had struck hers also—that the Sabbath morning might be half spent before Mrs. Thatcher discovered that Becky was not at Mrs. Harper’s. The children fastened their eyes upon their bit of candle and watched it melt slowly and pitilessly away; saw the half inch of wick stand alone at last; saw the feeble flame rise and fall, climb the thin column of smoke, linger at its top a moment, and then—the horror of utter darkness reigned! How long afterward it was that Becky came to a slow consciousness that she was crying in Tom’s arms, neither could tell. All that they knew was, that after what seemed a mighty stretch of time, both awoke out of a dead stupor of sleep and resumed their miseries once more. Tom said it might be Sunday, now—maybe Monday. He tried to get Becky to talk, but her sorrows were too oppressive, all her hopes were gone. Tom said
