can come in.” Then they all stuck a pin in their fingers to get blood to sign with, and I made my mark on the paper. “Now,” says Ben Rogers, “what’s the line of business of this Gang?” “Nothing only robbery and murder,” Tom said. “But who are we going to rob?—houses, or cattle, or—” “Stuff! stealing cattle and such things ain’t robbery; it’s burglary,” says Tom Sawyer. “We ain’t burglars. That ain’t no sort of style. We are highwaymen. We stop stages and carriages on the road, with masks on, and kill the people and take their watches and money.” “Must we always kill the people?” “Oh, certainly. It’s best. Some authorities think different, but mostly it’s considered best to kill them—except some that you bring to the cave here, and keep them till they’re ransomed.” “Ransomed? What’s that?” “I don’t know. But that’s what they do. I’ve seen it in books; and so of course that’s what we’ve got to do.” “But how can we do it if we don’t know what it is?” “Why, blame it all, we’ve _got_ to do it. Don’t I tell you it’s in the books? Do you want to go to doing different from what’s in the books, and get things all muddled up?” “Oh, that’s all very fine to _say_, Tom Sawyer, but how in the nation are these fellows going to be ransomed if we don’t know how to do it to them?—that’s the thing _I_ want to get at. Now, what do you _reckon_ it is?” “Well, I don’t know. But per’aps if we keep them till they’re ransomed, it means that we keep them till they’re dead.” “Now, that’s something _like_. That’ll answer. Why couldn’t you said that before? We’ll keep them till they’re ransomed to death; and a bothersome lot they’ll be, too—eating up everything, and always trying to get loose.” “How you talk, Ben Rogers. How can they get loose when there’s a guard over them, ready to shoot them down if they move a peg?” “A guard! Well, that _is_ good. So somebody’s got to set up all night and never get any sleep, just so as to watch them. I think that’s foolishness. Why can’t a body take a club and ransom them as soon as they get here?” “Because it ain’t in the books so—that’s why. Now, Ben Rogers, do you want to do things regular, or don’t you?—that’s the idea. Don’t you reckon that the people that made the books knows what’s the correct thing to do? Do you reckon _you_ can learn ’em anything? Not by a good deal. No, sir, we’ll just go on and ransom them in the regular way.” “All right. I don’t mind; but I say it’s a fool way, anyhow. Say, do we kill the women, too?” “Well, Ben Rogers, if I was as ignorant as you I wouldn’t let on. Kill the women? No; nobody ever saw anything in the books like that. You fetch them to the cave, and you’re always as polite as pie to them; and by-and-by they fall in love with you, and never want to go home any more.” “Well, if that’s the way I’m agreed, but I don’t take no stock in it. Mighty soon we’ll have the cave so cluttered up with women, and fellows waiting to be ransomed, that there won’t be no place for the robbers. But go ahead, I ain’t got nothing to say.” Little Tommy Barnes was asleep now, and when they waked him up he was scared, and cried, and said he wanted
