bits’ worth of old iron to sell to the foundry than they would to make twice the money at regular work. But that’s human nature—hurry along, hurry along!” The boys wanted to know what the hurry was about. “Never mind; you’ll see, when we get to the Widow Douglas’.” Huck said with some apprehension—for he was long used to being falsely accused: “Mr. Jones, we haven’t been doing nothing.” The Welshman laughed. “Well, I don’t know, Huck, my boy. I don’t know about that. Ain’t you and the widow good friends?” “Yes. Well, she’s ben good friends to me, anyway.” “All right, then. What do you want to be afraid for?” This question was not entirely answered in Huck’s slow mind before he found himself pushed, along with Tom, into Mrs. Douglas’ drawing-room. Mr. Jones left the wagon near the door and followed. The place was grandly lighted, and everybody that was of any consequence in the village was there. The Thatchers were there, the Harpers, the Rogerses, Aunt Polly, Sid, Mary, the minister, the editor, and a great many more, and all dressed in their best. The widow received the boys as heartily as any one could well receive two such looking beings. They were covered with clay and candle-grease. Aunt Polly blushed crimson with humiliation, and frowned and shook her head at Tom. Nobody suffered half as much as the two boys did, however. Mr. Jones said: “Tom wasn’t at home, yet, so I gave him up; but I stumbled on him and Huck right at my door, and so I just brought them along in a hurry.” “And you did just right,” said the widow. “Come with me, boys.” She took them to a bedchamber and said: “Now wash and dress yourselves. Here are two new suits of clothes—shirts, socks, everything complete. They’re Huck’s—no, no thanks, Huck—Mr. Jones bought one and I the other. But they’ll fit both of you. Get into them. We’ll wait—come down when you are slicked up enough.” Then she left. CHAPTER XXXIV Huck said: “Tom, we can slope, if we can find a rope. The window ain’t high from the ground.” “Shucks! what do you want to slope for?” “Well, I ain’t used to that kind of a crowd. I can’t stand it. I ain’t going down there, Tom.” “Oh, bother! It ain’t anything. I don’t mind it a bit. I’ll take care of you.” Sid appeared. “Tom,” said he, “auntie has been waiting for you all the afternoon. Mary got your Sunday clothes ready, and everybody’s been fretting about you. Say—ain’t this grease and clay, on your clothes?” “Now, Mr. Siddy, you jist ’tend to your own business. What’s all this blowout about, anyway?” “It’s one of the widow’s parties that she’s always having. This time it’s for the Welshman and his sons, on account of that scrape they helped her out of the other night. And say—I can tell you something, if you want to know.” “Well, what?” “Why, old Mr. Jones is going to try to spring something on the people here tonight, but I overheard him tell auntie today about it, as a secret, but I reckon it’s not much of a secret now. Everybody knows—the widow, too, for all she tries to let on she don’t. Mr. Jones was bound Huck should be here—couldn’t get along with his grand secret without Huck, you know!” “Secret about what, Sid?” “About Huck tracking the robbers to the widow’s. I reckon Mr. Jones was going to make a grand time over his surprise, but I bet you it will drop
