He thought he would satisfy himself on that point; so he searched around till he found a small sandy spot with a little funnel-shaped depression in it. He laid himself down and put his mouth close to this depression and called— “Doodle-bug, doodle-bug, tell me what I want to know! Doodle-bug, doodle-bug, tell me what I want to know!” The sand began to work, and presently a small black bug appeared for a second and then darted under again in a fright. “He dasn’t tell! So it _was_ a witch that done it. I just knowed it.” He well knew the futility of trying to contend against witches, so he gave up discouraged. But it occurred to him that he might as well have the marble he had just thrown away, and therefore he went and made a patient search for it. But he could not find it. Now he went back to his treasure-house and carefully placed himself just as he had been standing when he tossed the marble away; then he took another marble from his pocket and tossed it in the same way, saying: “Brother, go find your brother!” He watched where it stopped, and went there and looked. But it must have fallen short or gone too far; so he tried twice more. The last repetition was successful. The two marbles lay within a foot of each other. Just here the blast of a toy tin trumpet came faintly down the green aisles of the forest. Tom flung off his jacket and trousers, turned a suspender into a belt, raked away some brush behind the rotten log, disclosing a rude bow and arrow, a lath sword and a tin trumpet, and in a moment had seized these things and bounded away, barelegged, with fluttering shirt. He presently halted under a great elm, blew an answering blast, and then began to tiptoe and look warily out, this way and that. He said cautiously—to an imaginary company: “Hold, my merry men! Keep hid till I blow.” Now appeared Joe Harper, as airily clad and elaborately armed as Tom. Tom called: “Hold! Who comes here into Sherwood Forest without my pass?” “Guy of Guisborne wants no man’s pass. Who art thou that—that—” “Dares to hold such language,” said Tom, prompting—for they talked “by the book,” from memory. “Who art thou that dares to hold such language?” “I, indeed! I am Robin Hood, as thy caitiff carcase soon shall know.” “Then art thou indeed that famous outlaw? Right gladly will I dispute with thee the passes of the merry wood. Have at thee!” They took their lath swords, dumped their other traps on the ground, struck a fencing attitude, foot to foot, and began a grave, careful combat, “two up and two down.” Presently Tom said: “Now, if you’ve got the hang, go it lively!” So they “went it lively,” panting and perspiring with the work. By and by Tom shouted: “Fall! fall! Why don’t you fall?” “I sha’n’t! Why don’t you fall yourself? You’re getting the worst of it.” “Why, that ain’t anything. I can’t fall; that ain’t the way it is in the book. The book says, ‘Then with one back-handed stroke he slew poor Guy of Guisborne.’ You’re to turn around and let me hit you in the back.” There was no getting around the authorities, so Joe turned, received the whack and fell. “Now,” said Joe, getting up, “you got to let me kill _you_. That’s fair.” “Why, I can’t do that, it ain’t in the book.” “Well, it’s blamed mean—that’s all.” “Well, say, Joe, you
