take all summer.” “Well, what of that? Suppose you find a brass pot with a hundred dollars in it, all rusty and gray, or rotten chest full of di’monds. How’s that?” Huck’s eyes glowed. “That’s bully. Plenty bully enough for me. Just you gimme the hundred dollars and I don’t want no di’monds.” “All right. But I bet you I ain’t going to throw off on di’monds. Some of ’em’s worth twenty dollars apiece—there ain’t any, hardly, but’s worth six bits or a dollar.” “No! Is that so?” “Cert’nly—anybody’ll tell you so. Hain’t you ever seen one, Huck?” “Not as I remember.” “Oh, kings have slathers of them.” “Well, I don’ know no kings, Tom.” “I reckon you don’t. But if you was to go to Europe you’d see a raft of ’em hopping around.” “Do they hop?” “Hop?—your granny! No!” “Well, what did you say they did, for?” “Shucks, I only meant you’d _see_ ’em—not hopping, of course—what do they want to hop for?—but I mean you’d just see ’em—scattered around, you know, in a kind of a general way. Like that old humpbacked Richard.” “Richard? What’s his other name?” “He didn’t have any other name. Kings don’t have any but a given name.” “No?” “But they don’t.” “Well, if they like it, Tom, all right; but I don’t want to be a king and have only just a given name, like a nigger. But say—where you going to dig first?” “Well, I don’t know. S’pose we tackle that old dead-limb tree on the hill t’other side of Still-House branch?” “I’m agreed.” So they got a crippled pick and a shovel, and set out on their three-mile tramp. They arrived hot and panting, and threw themselves down in the shade of a neighboring elm to rest and have a smoke. “I like this,” said Tom. “So do I.” “Say, Huck, if we find a treasure here, what you going to do with your share?” “Well, I’ll have pie and a glass of soda every day, and I’ll go to every circus that comes along. I bet I’ll have a gay time.” “Well, ain’t you going to save any of it?” “Save it? What for?” “Why, so as to have something to live on, by and by.” “Oh, that ain’t any use. Pap would come back to thish-yer town some day and get his claws on it if I didn’t
