him, Huck. My, he’s pretty stiff. Where’d you get him?” “Bought him off’n a boy.” “What did you give?” “I give a blue ticket and a bladder that I got at the slaughter-house.” “Where’d you get the blue ticket?” “Bought it off’n Ben Rogers two weeks ago for a hoop-stick.” “Say—what is dead cats good for, Huck?” “Good for? Cure warts with.” “No! Is that so? I know something that’s better.” “I bet you don’t. What is it?” “Why, spunk-water.” “Spunk-water! I wouldn’t give a dern for spunk-water.” “You wouldn’t, wouldn’t you? D’you ever try it?” “No, I hain’t. But Bob Tanner did.” “Who told you so!” “Why, he told Jeff Thatcher, and Jeff told Johnny Baker, and Johnny told Jim Hollis, and Jim told Ben Rogers, and Ben told a nigger, and the nigger told me. There now!” “Well, what of it? They’ll all lie. Leastways all but the nigger. I don’t know _him_. But I never see a nigger that _wouldn’t_ lie. Shucks! Now you tell me how Bob Tanner done it, Huck.” “Why, he took and dipped his hand in a rotten stump where the rain-water was.” “In the daytime?” “Certainly.” “With his face to the stump?” “Yes. Least I reckon so.” “Did he say anything?” “I don’t reckon he did. I don’t know.” “Aha! Talk about trying to cure warts with spunk-water such a blame fool way as that! Why, that ain’t a-going to do any good. You got to go all by yourself, to the middle of the woods, where you know there’s a spunk-water stump, and just as it’s midnight you back up against the stump and jam your hand in and say: ‘Barley-corn, barley-corn, injun-meal shorts, Spunk-water, spunk-water, swaller these warts,’ and then walk away quick, eleven steps, with your eyes shut, and then turn around three times and walk home without speaking to anybody. Because if you speak the charm’s busted.” “Well, that sounds like a good way; but that ain’t the way Bob Tanner done.” “No, sir, you can bet he didn’t, becuz he’s the wartiest boy in this town; and he wouldn’t have a wart on him if he’d knowed how to work spunk-water. I’ve took off thousands of warts off of my hands that way, Huck. I play with frogs so much that I’ve always got considerable many warts. Sometimes I take ’em off with a bean.” “Yes, bean’s
