Harper. The two boys were sworn friends all the week, and embattled enemies on Saturdays. Joe took a pin out of his lapel and began to assist in exercising the prisoner. The sport grew in interest momently. Soon Tom said that they were interfering with each other, and neither getting the fullest benefit of the tick. So he put Joe’s slate on the desk and drew a line down the middle of it from top to bottom. “Now,” said he, “as long as he is on your side you can stir him up and I’ll let him alone; but if you let him get away and get on my side, you’re to leave him alone as long as I can keep him from crossing over.” “All right, go ahead; start him up.” The tick escaped from Tom, presently, and crossed the equator. Joe harassed him awhile, and then he got away and crossed back again. This change of base occurred often. While one boy was worrying the tick with absorbing interest, the other would look on with interest as strong, the two heads bowed together over the slate, and the two souls dead to all things else. At last luck seemed to settle and abide with Joe. The tick tried this, that, and the other course, and got as excited and as anxious as the boys themselves, but time and again just as he would have victory in his very grasp, so to speak, and Tom’s fingers would be twitching to begin, Joe’s pin would deftly head him off, and keep possession. At last Tom could stand it no longer. The temptation was too strong. So he reached out and lent a hand with his pin. Joe was angry in a moment. Said he: “Tom, you let him alone.” “I only just want to stir him up a little, Joe.” “No, sir, it ain’t fair; you just let him alone.” “Blame it, I ain’t going to stir him much.” “Let him alone, I tell you.” “I won’t!” “You shall—he’s on my side of the line.” “Look here, Joe Harper, whose is that tick?” “I don’t care whose tick he is—he’s on my side of the line, and you sha’n’t touch him.” “Well, I’ll just bet I will, though. He’s my tick and I’ll do what I blame please with him, or die!” A tremendous whack came down on Tom’s shoulders,
