on a dough roof, and shut down the lid, and put hot embers on top, and stood off five foot, with the long handle, cool and comfortable, and in fifteen minutes she turned out a pie that was a satisfaction to look at. But the person that et it would want to fetch a couple of kags of toothpicks along, for if that rope ladder wouldn’t cramp him down to business I don’t know nothing what I’m talking about, and lay him in enough stomach-ache to last him till next time, too. Nat didn’t look when we put the witch pie in Jim’s pan; and we put the three tin plates in the bottom of the pan under the vittles; and so Jim got everything all right, and as soon as he was by himself he busted into the pie and hid the rope ladder inside of his straw tick, and scratched some marks on a tin plate and throwed it out of the window-hole. CHAPTER XXXVIII. Making them pens was a distressid tough job, and so was the saw; and Jim allowed the inscription was going to be the toughest of all. That’s the one which the prisoner has to scrabble on the wall. But he had to have it; Tom said he’d _got_ to; there warn’t no case of a state prisoner not scrabbling his inscription to leave behind, and his coat of arms. “Look at Lady Jane Grey,” he says; “look at Gilford Dudley; look at old Northumberland! Why, Huck, s’pose it _is_ considerble trouble?—what you going to do?—how you going to get around it? Jim’s _got_ to do his inscription and coat of arms. They all do.” Jim says: “Why, Mars Tom, I hain’t got no coat o’ arm; I hain’t got nuffn but dish yer ole shirt, en you knows I got to keep de journal on dat.” “Oh, you don’t understand, Jim; a coat of arms is very different.” “Well,” I says, “Jim’s right, anyway, when he says he ain’t got no coat of arms, because he hain’t.” “I reckon _I_ knowed that,” Tom says, “but you bet he’ll have one before he goes out of this—because he’s going out _right_, and there ain’t going to be no flaws in his record.” So whilst me and Jim filed away at the pens on a brickbat apiece, Jim a-making his’n out of the brass and
