such a very good place; we’ll just regularly bury it—and bury it deep.” “Good idea,” said the comrade, who walked across the room, knelt down, raised one of the rearward hearth-stones and took out a bag that jingled pleasantly. He subtracted from it twenty or thirty dollars for himself and as much for Injun Joe, and passed the bag to the latter, who was on his knees in the corner, now, digging with his bowie-knife. The boys forgot all their fears, all their miseries in an instant. With gloating eyes they watched every movement. Luck!—the splendor of it was beyond all imagination! Six hundred dollars was money enough to make half a dozen boys rich! Here was treasure-hunting under the happiest auspices—there would not be any bothersome uncertainty as to where to dig. They nudged each other every moment—eloquent nudges and easily understood, for they simply meant—“Oh, but ain’t you glad _now_ we’re here!” Joe’s knife struck upon something. “Hello!” said he. “What is it?” said his comrade. “Half-rotten plank—no, it’s a box, I believe. Here—bear a hand and we’ll see what it’s here for. Never mind, I’ve broke a hole.” He reached his hand in and drew it out— “Man, it’s money!” The two men examined the handful of coins. They were gold. The boys above were as excited as themselves, and as delighted. Joe’s comrade said: “We’ll make quick work of this. There’s an old rusty pick over amongst the weeds in the corner the other side of the fireplace—I saw it a minute ago.” He ran and brought the boys’ pick and shovel. Injun Joe took the pick, looked it over critically, shook his head, muttered something to himself, and then began to use it. The box was soon unearthed. It was not very large; it was iron bound and had been very strong before the slow years had injured it. The men contemplated the treasure awhile in blissful silence. “Pard, there’s thousands of dollars here,” said Injun Joe. “’Twas always said that Murrel’s gang used to be around here one summer,” the stranger observed. “I know it,” said Injun Joe; “and this looks like it, I should say.” “Now you won’t need to do that job.” The halfbreed frowned. Said he: “You don’t know me. Least you don’t know all about that thing. ’Tain’t robbery altogether—it’s _revenge_!” and a wicked light flamed in his eyes. “I’ll
