anticipation. Tom’s excitement enabled him to keep awake until a pretty late hour, and he had good hopes of hearing Huck’s “maow,” and of having his treasure to astonish Becky and the picnickers with, next day; but he was disappointed. No signal came that night. Morning came, eventually, and by ten or eleven o’clock a giddy and rollicking company were gathered at Judge Thatcher’s, and everything was ready for a start. It was not the custom for elderly people to mar the picnics with their presence. The children were considered safe enough under the wings of a few young ladies of eighteen and a few young gentlemen of twenty-three or thereabouts. The old steam ferry-boat was chartered for the occasion; presently the gay throng filed up the main street laden with provision-baskets. Sid was sick and had to miss the fun; Mary remained at home to entertain him. The last thing Mrs. Thatcher said to Becky, was: “You’ll not get back till late. Perhaps you’d better stay all night with some of the girls that live near the ferry-landing, child.” “Then I’ll stay with Susy Harper, mamma.” “Very well. And mind and behave yourself and don’t be any trouble.” Presently, as they tripped along, Tom said to Becky: “Say—I’ll tell you what we’ll do. ’Stead of going to Joe Harper’s we’ll climb right up the hill and stop at the Widow Douglas’. She’ll have ice-cream! She has it most every day—dead loads of it. And she’ll be awful glad to have us.” “Oh, that will be fun!” Then Becky reflected a moment and said: “But what will mamma say?” “How’ll she ever know?” The girl turned the idea over in her mind, and said reluctantly: “I reckon it’s wrong—but—” “But shucks! Your mother won’t know, and so what’s the harm? All she wants is that you’ll be safe; and I bet you she’d ’a’ said go there if she’d ’a’ thought of it. I know she would!” The Widow Douglas’ splendid hospitality was a tempting bait. It and Tom’s persuasions presently carried the day. So it was decided to say nothing to anybody about the night’s programme. Presently it occurred to Tom that maybe Huck might come this very night and give the signal. The thought took a deal of the spirit out of his anticipations. Still he could not bear to give up the fun at Widow Douglas’. And
