boy did not betray that he was aware of it. At last she gave in and hesitatingly whispered: “Let me see it.” Tom partly uncovered a dismal caricature of a house with two gable ends to it and a corkscrew of smoke issuing from the chimney. Then the girl’s interest began to fasten itself upon the work and she forgot everything else. When it was finished, she gazed a moment, then whispered: “It’s nice—make a man.” The artist erected a man in the front yard, that resembled a derrick. He could have stepped over the house; but the girl was not hypercritical; she was satisfied with the monster, and whispered: “It’s a beautiful man—now make me coming along.” Tom drew an hour-glass with a full moon and straw limbs to it and armed the spreading fingers with a portentous fan. The girl said: “It’s ever so nice—I wish I could draw.” “It’s easy,” whispered Tom, “I’ll learn you.” “Oh, will you? When?” “At noon. Do you go home to dinner?” “I’ll stay if you will.” “Good—that’s a whack. What’s your name?” “Becky Thatcher. What’s yours? Oh, I know. It’s Thomas Sawyer.” “That’s the name they lick me by. I’m Tom when I’m good. You call me Tom, will you?” “Yes.” Now Tom began to scrawl something on the slate, hiding the words from the girl. But she was not backward this time. She begged to see. Tom said: “Oh, it ain’t anything.” “Yes it is.” “No it ain’t. You don’t want to see.” “Yes I do, indeed I do. Please let me.” “You’ll tell.” “No I won’t—deed and deed and double deed won’t.” “You won’t tell anybody at all? Ever, as long as you live?” “No, I won’t ever tell _any_body. Now let me.” “Oh, _you_ don’t want to see!” “Now that you treat me so, I _will_ see.” And she put her small hand upon his and a little scuffle ensued, Tom pretending to resist in earnest but letting his hand slip by degrees till these words were revealed: “_I love you_.” “Oh, you bad thing!” And she hit his hand a smart rap, but reddened and looked pleased, nevertheless. Just at this juncture the boy felt a slow, fateful grip closing on his ear, and a steady lifting impulse. In that wise he was borne across the house and deposited in his own seat, under a peppering fire
