avenues opened out of the small cavern which the great rock stood in. The boys examined three of them with no result. They found a small recess in the one nearest the base of the rock, with a pallet of blankets spread down in it; also an old suspender, some bacon rind, and the well-gnawed bones of two or three fowls. But there was no moneybox. The lads searched and researched this place, but in vain. Tom said: “He said _under_ the cross. Well, this comes nearest to being under the cross. It can’t be under the rock itself, because that sets solid on the ground.” They searched everywhere once more, and then sat down discouraged. Huck could suggest nothing. By-and-by Tom said: “Lookyhere, Huck, there’s footprints and some candle-grease on the clay about one side of this rock, but not on the other sides. Now, what’s that for? I bet you the money _is_ under the rock. I’m going to dig in the clay.” “That ain’t no bad notion, Tom!” said Huck with animation. Tom’s “real Barlow” was out at once, and he had not dug four inches before he struck wood. “Hey, Huck!—you hear that?” Huck began to dig and scratch now. Some boards were soon uncovered and removed. They had concealed a natural chasm which led under the rock. Tom got into this and held his candle as far under the rock as he could, but said he could not see to the end of the rift. He proposed to explore. He stooped and passed under; the narrow way descended gradually. He followed its winding course, first to the right, then to the left, Huck at his heels. Tom turned a short curve, by-and-by, and exclaimed: “My goodness, Huck, lookyhere!” It was the treasure-box, sure enough, occupying a snug little cavern, along with an empty powder-keg, a couple of guns in leather cases, two or three pairs of old moccasins, a leather belt, and some other rubbish well soaked with the water-drip. “Got it at last!” said Huck, ploughing among the tarnished coins with his hand. “My, but we’re rich, Tom!” “Huck, I always reckoned we’d get it. It’s just too good to believe, but we _have_ got it, sure! Say—let’s not fool around here. Let’s snake it out. Lemme see if I can lift the box.” It weighed about fifty pounds. Tom could lift it, after
