aunt would pull it out, and that would hurt. So he thought he would hold the tooth in reserve for the present, and seek further. Nothing offered for some little time, and then he remembered hearing the doctor tell about a certain thing that laid up a patient for two or three weeks and threatened to make him lose a finger. So the boy eagerly drew his sore toe from under the sheet and held it up for inspection. But now he did not know the necessary symptoms. However, it seemed well worth while to chance it, so he fell to groaning with considerable spirit. But Sid slept on unconscious. Tom groaned louder, and fancied that he began to feel pain in the toe. No result from Sid. Tom was panting with his exertions by this time. He took a rest and then swelled himself up and fetched a succession of admirable groans. Sid snored on. Tom was aggravated. He said, “Sid, Sid!” and shook him. This course worked well, and Tom began to groan again. Sid yawned, stretched, then brought himself up on his elbow with a snort, and began to stare at Tom. Tom went on groaning. Sid said: “Tom! Say, Tom!” [No response.] “Here, Tom! TOM! What is the matter, Tom?” And he shook him and looked in his face anxiously. Tom moaned out: “Oh, don’t, Sid. Don’t joggle me.” “Why, what’s the matter, Tom? I must call auntie.” “No—never mind. It’ll be over by and by, maybe. Don’t call anybody.” “But I must! _Don’t_ groan so, Tom, it’s awful. How long you been this way?” “Hours. Ouch! Oh, don’t stir so, Sid, you’ll kill me.” “Tom, why didn’t you wake me sooner? Oh, Tom, _don’t!_ It makes my flesh crawl to hear you. Tom, what is the matter?” “I forgive you everything, Sid. [Groan.] Everything you’ve ever done to me. When I’m gone—” “Oh, Tom, you ain’t dying, are you? Don’t, Tom—oh, don’t. Maybe—” “I forgive everybody, Sid. [Groan.] Tell ’em so, Sid. And Sid, you give my window-sash and my cat with one eye to that new girl that’s come to town, and tell her—” But Sid had snatched his clothes and gone. Tom was suffering in reality, now, so handsomely was his imagination working, and so his groans had gathered quite a genuine tone. Sid flew downstairs and said: “Oh, Aunt Polly, come! Tom’s
