some of it, but the rest was out of pirate-books and robber-books, and every gang that was high-toned had it. Some thought it would be good to kill the _families_ of boys that told the secrets. Tom said it was a good idea, so he took a pencil and wrote it in. Then Ben Rogers says: “Here’s Huck Finn, he hain’t got no family; what you going to do ’bout him?” “Well, hain’t he got a father?” says Tom Sawyer. “Yes, he’s got a father, but you can’t never find him these days. He used to lay drunk with the hogs in the tanyard, but he hain’t been seen in these parts for a year or more.” They talked it over, and they was going to rule me out, because they said every boy must have a family or somebody to kill, or else it wouldn’t be fair and square for the others. Well, nobody could think of anything to do—everybody was stumped, and set still. I was most ready to cry; but all at once I thought of a way, and so I offered them Miss Watson—they could kill her. Everybody said: “Oh, she’ll do. That’s all right. Huck can come in.” Then they all stuck a pin in their fingers to get blood to sign with, and I made my mark on the paper. “Now,” says Ben Rogers, “what’s the line of business of this Gang?” “Nothing only robbery and murder,” Tom said. “But who are we going to rob?—houses, or cattle, or—” “Stuff! stealing cattle and such things ain’t robbery; it’s burglary,” says Tom Sawyer. “We ain’t burglars. That ain’t no sort of style. We are highwaymen. We stop stages and carriages on the road, with masks on, and kill the people and take their watches and money.” “Must we always kill the people?” “Oh, certainly. It’s best. Some authorities think different, but mostly it’s considered best to kill them—except some that you bring to the cave here, and keep them till they’re ransomed.” “Ransomed? What’s that?” “I don’t know. But that’s what they do. I’ve seen it in books; and so of course that’s what we’ve got to do.” “But how can we do it if we don’t know what it is?” “Why, blame it all, we’ve _got_ to do it. Don’t I tell you it’s in the books? Do you want to go to doing
