really existed in the world. He never had supposed for a moment that so large a sum as a hundred dollars was to be found in actual money in any one’s possession. If his notions of hidden treasure had been analyzed, they would have been found to consist of a handful of real dimes and a bushel of vague, splendid, ungraspable dollars. But the incidents of his adventure grew sensibly sharper and clearer under the attrition of thinking them over, and so he presently found himself leaning to the impression that the thing might not have been a dream, after all. This uncertainty must be swept away. He would snatch a hurried breakfast and go and find Huck. Huck was sitting on the gunwale of a flatboat, listlessly dangling his feet in the water and looking very melancholy. Tom concluded to let Huck lead up to the subject. If he did not do it, then the adventure would be proved to have been only a dream. “Hello, Huck!” “Hello, yourself.” Silence, for a minute. “Tom, if we’d ’a’ left the blame tools at the dead tree, we’d ’a’ got the money. Oh, ain’t it awful!” “’Tain’t a dream, then, ’tain’t a dream! Somehow I most wish it was. Dog’d if I don’t, Huck.” “What ain’t a dream?” “Oh, that thing yesterday. I been half thinking it was.” “Dream! If them stairs hadn’t broke down you’d ’a’ seen how much dream it was! I’ve had dreams enough all night—with that patch-eyed Spanish devil going for me all through ’em—rot him!” “No, not rot him. _Find_ him! Track the money!” “Tom, we’ll never find him. A feller don’t have only one chance for such a pile—and that one’s lost. I’d feel mighty shaky if I was to see him, anyway.” “Well, so’d I; but I’d like to see him, anyway—and track him out—to his Number Two.” “Number Two—yes, that’s it. I been thinking ’bout that. But I can’t make nothing out of it. What do you reckon it is?” “I dono. It’s too deep. Say, Huck—maybe it’s the number of a house!” “Goody!... No, Tom, that ain’t it. If it is, it ain’t in this one-horse town. They ain’t no numbers here.” “Well, that’s so. Lemme think a minute. Here—it’s the number of a room—in a tavern, you know!” “Oh, that’s the trick! They ain’t only two taverns. We can find out
