he was driving at, and then they set up a warwhoop of applause and said it was “splendid!” and said if he had told them at first, they wouldn’t have started away. He made a plausible excuse; but his real reason had been the fear that not even the secret would keep them with him any very great length of time, and so he had meant to hold it in reserve as a last seduction. The lads came gayly back and went at their sports again with a will, chattering all the time about Tom’s stupendous plan and admiring the genius of it. After a dainty egg and fish dinner, Tom said he wanted to learn to smoke, now. Joe caught at the idea and said he would like to try, too. So Huck made pipes and filled them. These novices had never smoked anything before but cigars made of grapevine, and they “bit” the tongue, and were not considered manly anyway. Now they stretched themselves out on their elbows and began to puff, charily, and with slender confidence. The smoke had an unpleasant taste, and they gagged a little, but Tom said: “Why, it’s just as easy! If I’d a knowed this was all, I’d a learnt long ago.” “So would I,” said Joe. “It’s just nothing.” “Why, many a time I’ve looked at people smoking, and thought well I wish I could do that; but I never thought I could,” said Tom. “That’s just the way with me, hain’t it, Huck? You’ve heard me talk just that way—haven’t you, Huck? I’ll leave it to Huck if I haven’t.” “Yes—heaps of times,” said Huck. “Well, I have too,” said Tom; “oh, hundreds of times. Once down by the slaughter-house. Don’t you remember, Huck? Bob Tanner was there, and Johnny Miller, and Jeff Thatcher, when I said it. Don’t you remember, Huck, ’bout me saying that?” “Yes, that’s so,” said Huck. “That was the day after I lost a white alley. No, ’twas the day before.” “There—I told you so,” said Tom. “Huck recollects it.” “I bleeve I could smoke this pipe all day,” said Joe. “I don’t feel sick.” “Neither do I,” said Tom. “I could smoke it all day. But I bet you Jeff Thatcher couldn’t.” “Jeff Thatcher! Why, he’d keel over just with two draws. Just let him try it once. _He’d_ see!” “I bet he would.
