In one corner they found a closet that promised mystery, but the promise was a fraud—there was nothing in it. Their courage was up now and well in hand. They were about to go down and begin work when— “Sh!” said Tom. “What is it?” whispered Huck, blanching with fright. “Sh!... There!... Hear it?” “Yes!... Oh, my! Let’s run!” “Keep still! Don’t you budge! They’re coming right toward the door.” The boys stretched themselves upon the floor with their eyes to knotholes in the planking, and lay waiting, in a misery of fear. “They’ve stopped.... No—coming.... Here they are. Don’t whisper another word, Huck. My goodness, I wish I was out of this!” Two men entered. Each boy said to himself: “There’s the old deaf and dumb Spaniard that’s been about town once or twice lately—never saw t’other man before.” “T’other” was a ragged, unkempt creature, with nothing very pleasant in his face. The Spaniard was wrapped in a serape; he had bushy white whiskers; long white hair flowed from under his sombrero, and he wore green goggles. When they came in, “t’other” was talking in a low voice; they sat down on the ground, facing the door, with their backs to the wall, and the speaker continued his remarks. His manner became less guarded and his words more distinct as he proceeded: “No,” said he, “I’ve thought it all over, and I don’t like it. It’s dangerous.” “Dangerous!” grunted the “deaf and dumb” Spaniard—to the vast surprise of the boys. “Milksop!” This voice made the boys gasp and quake. It was Injun Joe’s! There was silence for some time. Then Joe said: “What’s any more dangerous than that job up yonder—but nothing’s come of it.” “That’s different. Away up the river so, and not another house about. ’Twon’t ever be known that we tried, anyway, long as we didn’t succeed.” “Well, what’s more dangerous than coming here in the daytime!—anybody would suspicion us that saw us.” “I know that. But there warn’t any other place as handy after that fool of a job. I want to quit this shanty. I wanted to yesterday, only it warn’t any use trying to stir out of here, with those infernal boys playing over there on the hill right in full view.” “Those infernal boys” quaked again under the inspiration of this remark, and thought how lucky it was that they had remembered
