know it, Tom.” “Indeed and ’deed I did, auntie—I wish I may never stir if I didn’t.” “Oh, Tom, don’t lie—don’t do it. It only makes things a hundred times worse.” “It ain’t a lie, auntie; it’s the truth. I wanted to keep you from grieving—that was all that made me come.” “I’d give the whole world to believe that—it would cover up a power of sins, Tom. I’d ’most be glad you’d run off and acted so bad. But it ain’t reasonable; because, why didn’t you tell me, child?” “Why, you see, when you got to talking about the funeral, I just got all full of the idea of our coming and hiding in the church, and I couldn’t somehow bear to spoil it. So I just put the bark back in my pocket and kept mum.” “What bark?” “The bark I had wrote on to tell you we’d gone pirating. I wish, now, you’d waked up when I kissed you—I do, honest.” The hard lines in his aunt’s face relaxed and a sudden tenderness dawned in her eyes. “_Did_ you kiss me, Tom?” “Why, yes, I did.” “Are you sure you did, Tom?” “Why, yes, I did, auntie—certain sure.” “What did you kiss me for, Tom?” “Because I loved you so, and you laid there moaning and I was so sorry.” The words sounded like truth. The old lady could not hide a tremor in her voice when she said: “Kiss me again, Tom!—and be off with you to school, now, and don’t bother me any more.” The moment he was gone, she ran to a closet and got out the ruin of a jacket which Tom had gone pirating in. Then she stopped, with it in her hand, and said to herself: “No, I don’t dare. Poor boy, I reckon he’s lied about it—but it’s a blessed, blessed lie, there’s such a comfort come from it. I hope the Lord—I _know_ the Lord will forgive him, because it was such good-heartedness in him to tell it. But I don’t want to find out it’s a lie. I won’t look.” She put the jacket away, and stood by musing a minute. Twice she put out her hand to take the garment again, and twice she refrained. Once more she ventured, and this time she fortified herself with the thought: “It’s a good lie—it’s a good lie—I won’t let
