with gals, cuz _they_ go back on you anyway, and blab if they get in a huff—but there orter be writing ’bout a big thing like this. And blood.” Tom’s whole being applauded this idea. It was deep, and dark, and awful; the hour, the circumstances, the surroundings, were in keeping with it. He picked up a clean pine shingle that lay in the moon-light, took a little fragment of “red keel” out of his pocket, got the moon on his work, and painfully scrawled these lines, emphasizing each slow down-stroke by clamping his tongue between his teeth, and letting up the pressure on the up-strokes. “Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer swears they will keep mum about This and They wish They may Drop down dead in Their Tracks if They ever Tell and Rot.” Huckleberry was filled with admiration of Tom’s facility in writing, and the sublimity of his language. He at once took a pin from his lapel and was going to prick his flesh, but Tom said: “Hold on! Don’t do that. A pin’s brass. It might have verdigrease on it.” “What’s verdigrease?” “It’s p’ison. That’s what it is. You just swaller some of it once—you’ll see.” So Tom unwound the thread from one of his needles, and each boy pricked the ball of his thumb and squeezed out a drop of blood. In time, after many squeezes, Tom managed to sign his initials, using the ball of his little finger for a pen. Then he showed Huckleberry how to make an H and an F, and the oath was complete. They buried the shingle close to the wall, with some dismal ceremonies and incantations, and the fetters that bound their tongues were considered to be locked and the key thrown away. A figure crept stealthily through a break in the other end of the ruined building, now, but they did not notice it. “Tom,” whispered Huckleberry, “does this keep us from _ever_ telling—_always_?” “Of course it does. It don’t make any difference _what_ happens, we got to keep mum. We’d drop down dead—don’t _you_ know that?” “Yes, I reckon that’s so.” They continued to whisper for some little time. Presently a dog set up a long, lugubrious howl just outside—within ten feet of them. The boys clasped each other suddenly, in an agony of fright. “Which of us does he mean?” gasped Huckleberry. “I dono—peep through
