it’s better’n to be a pirate.” “Yes, it’s better in some ways, because it’s close to home and circuses and all that.” By this time everything was ready and the boys entered the hole, Tom in the lead. They toiled their way to the farther end of the tunnel, then made their spliced kite-strings fast and moved on. A few steps brought them to the spring, and Tom felt a shudder quiver all through him. He showed Huck the fragment of candle-wick perched on a lump of clay against the wall, and described how he and Becky had watched the flame struggle and expire. The boys began to quiet down to whispers, now, for the stillness and gloom of the place oppressed their spirits. They went on, and presently entered and followed Tom’s other corridor until they reached the “jumping-off place.” The candles revealed the fact that it was not really a precipice, but only a steep clay hill twenty or thirty feet high. Tom whispered: “Now I’ll show you something, Huck.” He held his candle aloft and said: “Look as far around the corner as you can. Do you see that? There—on the big rock over yonder—done with candle-smoke.” “Tom, it’s a _cross_!” “_Now_ where’s your Number Two? ‘_under the cross_,’ hey? Right yonder’s where I saw Injun Joe poke up his candle, Huck!” Huck stared at the mystic sign awhile, and then said with a shaky voice: “Tom, less git out of here!” “What! and leave the treasure?” “Yes—leave it. Injun Joe’s ghost is round about there, certain.” “No it ain’t, Huck, no it ain’t. It would ha’nt the place where he died—away out at the mouth of the cave—five mile from here.” “No, Tom, it wouldn’t. It would hang round the money. I know the ways of ghosts, and so do you.” Tom began to fear that Huck was right. Misgivings gathered in his mind. But presently an idea occurred to him— “Lookyhere, Huck, what fools we’re making of ourselves! Injun Joe’s ghost ain’t a going to come around where there’s a cross!” The point was well taken. It had its effect. “Tom, I didn’t think of that. But that’s so. It’s luck for us, that cross is. I reckon we’ll climb down there and have a hunt for that box.” Tom went first, cutting rude steps in the clay hill as he descended. Huck followed. Four
