dying!” “Dying!” “Yes’m. Don’t wait—come quick!” “Rubbage! I don’t believe it!” But she fled upstairs, nevertheless, with Sid and Mary at her heels. And her face grew white, too, and her lip trembled. When she reached the bedside she gasped out: “You, Tom! Tom, what’s the matter with you?” “Oh, auntie, I’m—” “What’s the matter with you—what is the matter with you, child?” “Oh, auntie, my sore toe’s mortified!” The old lady sank down into a chair and laughed a little, then cried a little, then did both together. This restored her and she said: “Tom, what a turn you did give me. Now you shut up that nonsense and climb out of this.” The groans ceased and the pain vanished from the toe. The boy felt a little foolish, and he said: “Aunt Polly, it _seemed_ mortified, and it hurt so I never minded my tooth at all.” “Your tooth, indeed! What’s the matter with your tooth?” “One of them’s loose, and it aches perfectly awful.” “There, there, now, don’t begin that groaning again. Open your mouth. Well—your tooth _is_ loose, but you’re not going to die about that. Mary, get me a silk thread, and a chunk of fire out of the kitchen.” Tom said: “Oh, please, auntie, don’t pull it out. It don’t hurt any more. I wish I may never stir if it does. Please don’t, auntie. I don’t want to stay home from school.” “Oh, you don’t, don’t you? So all this row was because you thought you’d get to stay home from school and go a-fishing? Tom, Tom, I love you so, and you seem to try every way you can to break my old heart with your outrageousness.” By this time the dental instruments were ready. The old lady made one end of the silk thread fast to Tom’s tooth with a loop and tied the other to the bedpost. Then she seized the chunk of fire and suddenly thrust it almost into the boy’s face. The tooth hung dangling by the bedpost, now. But all trials bring their compensations. As Tom wended to school after breakfast, he was the envy of every boy he met because the gap in his upper row of teeth enabled him to expectorate in a new and admirable way. He gathered quite a following of lads interested in the exhibition; and one that had cut his finger
