the house is ill. 10. Umbrellas are useful on a journey; What is useless on a journey should be left behind. 11. Audible music causes vibration in the air; Inaudible music is not worth paying for. 12. Some holidays are rainy; Rainy days are tiresome. 13. No Frenchmen like plumpudding; All Englishmen like plumpudding. 14. No portrait of a lady, that makes her simper or scowl, is satisfactory; No photograph of a lady ever fails to make her simper or scowl. 15. All pale people are phlegmatic; No one looks poetical unless he is pale. 16. No old misers are cheerful; Some old misers are thin. 17. No one, who exercises self-control, fails to keep his temper; Some judges lose their tempers. pg102 18. All pigs are fat; Nothing that is fed on barley-water is fat. 19. All rabbits, that are not greedy, are black; No old rabbits are free from greediness. 20. Some pictures are not first attempts; No first attempts are really good. 21. I never neglect important business; Your business is unimportant. 22. Some lessons are difficult; What is difficult needs attention. 23. All clever people are popular; All obliging people are popular. 24. Thoughtless people do mischief; No thoughtful person forgets a promise. 25. Pigs cannot fly; Pigs are greedy. 26. All soldiers march well; Some babies are not soldiers. 27. No bride-cakes are wholesome; What is unwholesome should be avoided. 28. John is industrious; No industrious people are unhappy. 29. No philosophers are conceited; Some conceited persons are not gamblers. 30. Some excise laws are unjust; All the laws passed last week relate to excise. 31. No military men write poetry; None of my lodgers are civilians. 32. No medicine is nice; Senna is a medicine. 33. Some circulars are not read with pleasure; No begging-letters are read with pleasure. 34. All Britons are brave; No sailors are cowards. 35. Nothing intelligible ever puzzles _me_; Logic puzzles me. 36. Some pigs are wild; All pigs are fat. pg103 37. All wasps are unfriendly; All unfriendly creatures are unwelcome. 38. No old rabbits are greedy; All black rabbits are greedy. 39. Some eggs are hard-boiled; No eggs are uncrackable. 40. No antelope is ungraceful; Graceful creatures delight the eye. 41. All well-fed canaries sing loud; No canary is melancholy if it sings loud. 42. Some poetry is original; No original work is producible at will. 43. No country, that has been explored, is infested by dragons; Unexplored countries are fascinating. 44. No coals are white; No niggers are white. 45. No bridges are made of sugar; Some bridges are picturesque. 46. No children are patient; No impatient person can sit still. 47. No quadrupeds can whistle; Some cats are quadrupeds. 48. Bores are terrible; You are a bore. 49. Some oysters are silent; No silent creatures are amusing. 50. There are no Jews in the house; No Gentiles have beards a yard long. 51. Canaries, that do not sing loud, are unhappy; No well-fed canaries fail to sing loud. 52. All my sisters have colds; No one can sing who has a cold. 53. All that is made of gold is precious; Some caskets are precious. 54. Some buns are rich; All buns are nice. 55. All my cousins are unjust; All judges are just. pg104 56. Pain is wearisome; No pain is eagerly wished for. 57. All medicine is nasty; Senna is a medicine. 58. Some unkind remarks are annoying; No critical remarks are kind. 59. No tall men have woolly hair; Niggers have woolly hair. 60. All philosophers are logical; An illogical man is
