wheat was cheap; something that increased at such a rate of percentage, and yielded such another percentage of crime, and such another percentage of pauperism; something wholesale, of which vast fortunes were made; something that occasionally rose like a sea, and did some harm and waste (chiefly to itself), and fell again; this she knew the Coketown Hands to be. But, she had scarcely thought more of separating them into units, than of separating the sea itself into its component drops. She stood for some moments looking round the room. From the few chairs, the few books, the common prints, and the bed, she glanced to the two women, and to Stephen. ‘I have come to speak to you, in consequence of what passed just now. I should like to be serviceable to you, if you will let me. Is this your wife?’ Rachael raised her eyes, and they sufficiently answered no, and dropped again. ‘I remember,’ said Louisa, reddening at her mistake; ‘I recollect, now, to have heard your domestic misfortunes spoken of, though I was not attending to the particulars at the time. It was not my meaning to ask a question that would give pain to any one here. If I should ask any other question that may happen to have that result, give me credit, if you please, for being in ignorance how to speak to you as I ought.’ As Stephen had but a little while ago instinctively addressed himself to her, so she now instinctively addressed herself to Rachael. Her manner was short and abrupt, yet faltering and timid. ‘He has told you what has passed between himself and my husband? You would be his first resource, I think.’ ‘I have heard the end of it, young lady,’ said Rachael. ‘Did I understand, that, being rejected by one employer, he would probably be rejected by all? I thought he said as much?’ ‘The chances are very small, young lady—next to nothing—for a man who gets a bad name among them.’ ‘What shall I understand that you mean by a bad name?’ ‘The name of being troublesome.’ ‘Then, by the prejudices of his own class, and by the prejudices of the other, he is sacrificed alike? Are the two so deeply separated in this town, that there is no place whatever for an honest workman between them?’ Rachael shook her head in silence. ‘He fell
