saw him hesitate. He is deceiving you, my good friend.” “I’ll swear he is not,” replied Mr. Brownlow, warmly. “If he is not,” said Mr. Grimwig, “I’ll—” and down went the stick. “I’ll answer for that boy’s truth with my life!” said Mr. Brownlow, knocking the table. “And I for his falsehood with my head!” rejoined Mr. Grimwig, knocking the table also. “We shall see,” said Mr. Brownlow, checking his rising anger. “We will,” replied Mr. Grimwig, with a provoking smile; “we will.” As fate would have it, Mrs. Bedwin chanced to bring in, at this moment, a small parcel of books, which Mr. Brownlow had that morning purchased of the identical bookstall-keeper, who has already figured in this history; having laid them on the table, she prepared to leave the room. “Stop the boy, Mrs. Bedwin!” said Mr. Brownlow; “there is something to go back.” “He has gone, sir,” replied Mrs. Bedwin. “Call after him,” said Mr. Brownlow; “it’s particular. He is a poor man, and they are not paid for. There are some books to be taken back, too.” The street-door was opened. Oliver ran one way; and the girl ran another; and Mrs. Bedwin stood on the step and screamed for the boy; but there was no boy in sight. Oliver and the girl returned, in a breathless state, to report that there were no tidings of him. “Dear me, I am very sorry for that,” exclaimed Mr. Brownlow; “I particularly wished those books to be returned tonight.” “Send Oliver with them,” said Mr. Grimwig, with an ironical smile; “he will be sure to deliver them safely, you know.” “Yes; do let me take them, if you please, sir,” said Oliver. “I’ll run all the way, sir.” The old gentleman was just going to say that Oliver should not go out on any account; when a most malicious cough from Mr. Grimwig determined him that he should; and that, by his prompt discharge of the commission, he should prove to him the injustice of his suspicions: on this head at least: at once. “You _shall_ go, my dear,” said the old gentleman. “The books are on a chair by my table. Fetch them down.” Oliver, delighted to be of use, brought down the books under his arm in a great bustle; and waited, cap in hand, to hear what message he was to take. “You are to
