positions: eyeing his new friend meanwhile with mingled fear and suspicion. “I’ll tell you more,” said Fagin, after he had reassured the girl, by dint of friendly nods and muttered encouragements. “I have got a friend that I think can gratify your darling wish, and put you in the right way, where you can take whatever department of the business you think will suit you best at first, and be taught all the others.” “Yer speak as if yer were in earnest,” replied Noah. “What advantage would it be to me to be anything else?” inquired Fagin, shrugging his shoulders. “Here! Let me have a word with you outside.” “There’s no occasion to trouble ourselves to move,” said Noah, getting his legs by gradual degrees abroad again. “She’ll take the luggage upstairs the while. Charlotte, see to them bundles.” This mandate, which had been delivered with great majesty, was obeyed without the slightest demur; and Charlotte made the best of her way off with the packages while Noah held the door open and watched her out. “She’s kept tolerably well under, ain’t she?” he asked as he resumed his seat: in the tone of a keeper who had tamed some wild animal. “Quite perfect,” rejoined Fagin, clapping him on the shoulder. “You’re a genius, my dear.” “Why, I suppose if I wasn’t, I shouldn’t be here,” replied Noah. “But, I say, she’ll be back if yer lose time.” “Now, what do you think?” said Fagin. “If you was to like my friend, could you do better than join him?” “Is he in a good way of business; that’s where it is!” responded Noah, winking one of his little eyes. “The top of the tree; employs a power of hands; has the very best society in the profession.” “Regular town-maders?” asked Mr. Claypole. “Not a countryman among ’em; and I don’t think he’d take you, even on my recommendation, if he didn’t run rather short of assistants just now,” replied Fagin. “Should I have to hand over?” said Noah, slapping his breeches-pocket. “It couldn’t possibly be done without,” replied Fagin, in a most decided manner. “Twenty pound, though—it’s a lot of money!” “Not when it’s in a note you can’t get rid of,” retorted Fagin. “Number and date taken, I suppose? Payment stopped at the Bank? Ah! It’s not worth much to him. It’ll have to go abroad, and he couldn’t
