live to be a hundred years old, I could say with my last breath, God knows my heart. I have never once left trusting Stephen Blackpool!’ ‘We all believe, up at the Lodge, Rachael, that he will be freed from suspicion, sooner or later.’ ‘The better I know it to be so believed there, my dear,’ said Rachael, ‘and the kinder I feel it that you come away from there, purposely to comfort me, and keep me company, and be seen wi’ me when I am not yet free from all suspicion myself, the more grieved I am that I should ever have spoken those mistrusting words to the young lady. And yet I—’ ‘You don’t mistrust her now, Rachael?’ ‘Now that you have brought us more together, no. But I can’t at all times keep out of my mind—’ Her voice so sunk into a low and slow communing with herself, that Sissy, sitting by her side, was obliged to listen with attention. ‘I can’t at all times keep out of my mind, mistrustings of some one. I can’t think who ’tis, I can’t think how or why it may be done, but I mistrust that some one has put Stephen out of the way. I mistrust that by his coming back of his own accord, and showing himself innocent before them all, some one would be confounded, who—to prevent that—has stopped him, and put him out of the way.’ ‘That is a dreadful thought,’ said Sissy, turning pale. ‘It _is_ a dreadful thought to think he may be murdered.’ Sissy shuddered, and turned paler yet. ‘When it makes its way into my mind, dear,’ said Rachael, ‘and it will come sometimes, though I do all I can to keep it out, wi’ counting on to high numbers as I work, and saying over and over again pieces that I knew when I were a child—I fall into such a wild, hot hurry, that, however tired I am, I want to walk fast, miles and miles. I must get the better of this before bed-time. I’ll walk home wi’ you.’ ‘He might fall ill upon the journey back,’ said Sissy, faintly offering a worn-out scrap of hope; ‘and in such a case, there are many places on the road where he might stop.’ ‘But he is in none of them. He has been sought for in all, and he’s
