with her head upon her hands, while the very effort by which she roused herself, told, more forcibly than even these indications, that she was ill at ease, and that her thoughts were occupied with matters very different and distant from those in the course of discussion by her companions. It was Sunday night, and the bell of the nearest church struck the hour. Sikes and the Jew were talking, but they paused to listen. The girl looked up from the low seat on which she crouched, and listened too. Eleven. “An hour this side of midnight,” said Sikes, raising the blind to look out and returning to his seat. “Dark and heavy it is too. A good night for business this.” “Ah!” replied Fagin. “What a pity, Bill, my dear, that there’s none quite ready to be done.” “You’re right for once,” replied Sikes gruffly. “It is a pity, for I’m in the humour too.” Fagin sighed, and shook his head despondingly. “We must make up for lost time when we’ve got things into a good train. That’s all I know,” said Sikes. “That’s the way to talk, my dear,” replied Fagin, venturing to pat him on the shoulder. “It does me good to hear you.” “Does you good, does it!” cried Sikes. “Well, so be it.” “Ha! ha! ha!” laughed Fagin, as if he were relieved by even this concession. “You’re like yourself tonight, Bill. Quite like yourself.” “I don’t feel like myself when you lay that withered old claw on my shoulder, so take it away,” said Sikes, casting off the Jew’s hand. “It make you nervous, Bill,—reminds you of being nabbed, does it?” said Fagin, determined not to be offended. “Reminds me of being nabbed by the devil,” returned Sikes. “There never was another man with such a face as yours, unless it was your father, and I suppose _he_ is singeing his grizzled red beard by this time, unless you came straight from the old ’un without any father at all betwixt you; which I shouldn’t wonder at, a bit.” Fagin offered no reply to this compliment: but, pulling Sikes by the sleeve, pointed his finger towards Nancy, who had taken advantage of the foregoing conversation to put on her bonnet, and was now leaving the room. “Hallo!” cried Sikes. “Nance. Where’s the gal going to at this time of night?” “Not far.” “What answer’s
