“You are,” said Giles. “You’re a falsehood, Mr. Giles,” said Brittles. “You’re a lie, Brittles,” said Mr. Giles. Now, these four retorts arose from Mr. Giles’s taunt; and Mr. Giles’s taunt had arisen from his indignation at having the responsibility of going home again, imposed upon himself under cover of a compliment. The third man brought the dispute to a close, most philosophically. “I’ll tell you what it is, gentlemen,” said he, “we’re all afraid.” “Speak for yourself, sir,” said Mr. Giles, who was the palest of the party. “So I do,” replied the man. “It’s natural and proper to be afraid, under such circumstances. I am.” “So am I,” said Brittles; “only there’s no call to tell a man he is, so bounceably.” These frank admissions softened Mr. Giles, who at once owned that _he_ was afraid; upon which, they all three faced about, and ran back again with the completest unanimity, until Mr. Giles (who had the shortest wind of the party, as was encumbered with a pitchfork) most handsomely insisted on stopping, to make an apology for his hastiness of speech. “But it’s wonderful,” said Mr. Giles, when he had explained, “what a man will do, when his blood is up. I should have committed murder—I know I should—if we’d caught one of them rascals.” As the other two were impressed with a similar presentiment; and as their blood, like his, had all gone down again; some speculation ensued upon the cause of this sudden change in their temperament. “I know what it was,” said Mr. Giles; “it was the gate.” “I shouldn’t wonder if it was,” exclaimed Brittles, catching at the idea. “You may depend upon it,” said Giles, “that that gate stopped the flow of the excitement. I felt all mine suddenly going away, as I was climbing over it.” By a remarkable coincidence, the other two had been visited with the same unpleasant sensation at that precise moment. It was quite obvious, therefore, that it was the gate; especially as there was no doubt regarding the time at which the change had taken place, because all three remembered that they had come in sight of the robbers at the instant of its occurance. This dialogue was held between the two men who had surprised the burglars, and a travelling tinker who had been sleeping in an outhouse, and who had been roused, together with
