who it was; his pale face was enough. The dog too was on the alert in an instant, and ran whining to the door. “We must let him in,” he said, taking up the candle. “Isn’t there any help for it?” asked the other man in a hoarse voice. “None. He _must_ come in.” “Don’t leave us in the dark,” said Kags, taking down a candle from the chimney-piece, and lighting it, with such a trembling hand that the knocking was twice repeated before he had finished. Crackit went down to the door, and returned followed by a man with the lower part of his face buried in a handkerchief, and another tied over his head under his hat. He drew them slowly off. Blanched face, sunken eyes, hollow cheeks, beard of three days’ growth, wasted flesh, short thick breath; it was the very ghost of Sikes. He laid his hand upon a chair which stood in the middle of the room, but shuddering as he was about to drop into it, and seeming to glance over his shoulder, dragged it back close to the wall—as close as it would go—and ground it against it—and sat down. Not a word had been exchanged. He looked from one to another in silence. If an eye were furtively raised and met his, it was instantly averted. When his hollow voice broke silence, they all three started. They seemed never to have heard its tones before. “How came that dog here?” he asked. “Alone. Three hours ago.” “Tonight’s paper says that Fagin’s took. Is it true, or a lie?” “True.” They were silent again. “Damn you all!” said Sikes, passing his hand across his forehead. “Have you nothing to say to me?” There was an uneasy movement among them, but nobody spoke. “You that keep this house,” said Sikes, turning his face to Crackit, “do you mean to sell me, or to let me lie here till this hunt is over?” “You may stop here, if you think it safe,” returned the person addressed, after some hesitation. Sikes carried his eyes slowly up the wall behind him: rather trying to turn his head than actually doing it: and said, “Is—it—the body—is it buried?” They shook their heads. “Why isn’t it!” he retorted with the same glance behind him. “Wot do they keep such ugly things above the ground for?—Who’s that knocking?” Crackit intimated,
