can professionally certify.” Messrs. Blathers and Duff looked at Mr. Giles, as he was thus recommended to their notice. The bewildered butler gazed from them towards Oliver, and from Oliver towards Mr. Losberne, with a most ludicrous mixture of fear and perplexity. “You don’t mean to deny that, I suppose?” said the doctor, laying Oliver gently down again. “It was all done for the—for the best, sir,” answered Giles. “I am sure I thought it was the boy, or I wouldn’t have meddled with him. I am not of an inhuman disposition, sir.” “Thought it was what boy?” inquired the senior officer. “The housebreaker’s boy, sir!” replied Giles. “They—they certainly had a boy.” “Well? Do you think so now?” inquired Blathers. “Think what, now?” replied Giles, looking vacantly at his questioner. “Think it’s the same boy, Stupid-head?” rejoined Blathers, impatiently. “I don’t know; I really don’t know,” said Giles, with a rueful countenance. “I couldn’t swear to him.” “What do you think?” asked Mr. Blathers. “I don’t know what to think,” replied poor Giles. “I don’t think it is the boy; indeed, I’m almost certain that it isn’t. You know it can’t be.” “Has this man been a-drinking, sir?” inquired Blathers, turning to the doctor. “What a precious muddle-headed chap you are!” said Duff, addressing Mr. Giles, with supreme contempt. Mr. Losberne had been feeling the patient’s pulse during this short dialogue; but he now rose from the chair by the bedside, and remarked, that if the officers had any doubts upon the subject, they would perhaps like to step into the next room, and have Brittles before them. Acting upon this suggestion, they adjourned to a neighbouring apartment, where Mr. Brittles, being called in, involved himself and his respected superior in such a wonderful maze of fresh contradictions and impossibilities, as tended to throw no particular light on anything, but the fact of his own strong mystification; except, indeed, his declarations that he shouldn’t know the real boy, if he were put before him that instant; that he had only taken Oliver to be he, because Mr. Giles had said he was; and that Mr. Giles had, five minutes previously, admitted in the kitchen, that he began to be very much afraid he had been a little too hasty. Among other ingenious surmises, the question was then raised, whether Mr. Giles had really hit anybody; and upon examination of
