them inwards. “Come in!” he cried impatiently, stamping his foot upon the ground. “Don’t keep me here!” The woman, who had hesitated at first, walked boldly in, without any other invitation. Mr. Bumble, who was ashamed or afraid to lag behind, followed: obviously very ill at ease and with scarcely any of that remarkable dignity which was usually his chief characteristic. “What the devil made you stand lingering there, in the wet?” said Monks, turning round, and addressing Bumble, after he had bolted the door behind them. “We—we were only cooling ourselves,” stammered Bumble, looking apprehensively about him. “Cooling yourselves!” retorted Monks. “Not all the rain that ever fell, or ever will fall, will put as much of hell’s fire out, as a man can carry about with him. You won’t cool yourself so easily; don’t think it!” With this agreeable speech, Monks turned short upon the matron, and bent his gaze upon her, till even she, who was not easily cowed, was fain to withdraw her eyes, and turn them towards the ground. “This is the woman, is it?” demanded Monks. “Hem! That is the woman,” replied Mr. Bumble, mindful of his wife’s caution. “You think women never can keep secrets, I suppose?” said the matron, interposing, and returning, as she spoke, the searching look of Monks. “I know they will always keep _one_ till it’s found out,” said Monks. “And what may that be?” asked the matron. “The loss of their own good name,” replied Monks. “So, by the same rule, if a woman’s a party to a secret that might hang or transport her, I’m not afraid of her telling it to anybody; not I! Do you understand, mistress?” “No,” rejoined the matron, slightly colouring as she spoke. “Of course you don’t!” said Monks. “How should you?” Bestowing something half-way between a smile and a frown upon his two companions, and again beckoning them to follow him, the man hastened across the apartment, which was of considerable extent, but low in the roof. He was preparing to ascend a steep staircase, or rather ladder, leading to another floor of warehouses above: when a bright flash of lightning streamed down the aperture, and a peal of thunder followed, which shook the crazy building to its centre. “Hear it!” he cried, shrinking back. “Hear it! Rolling and crashing on as if it echoed through a thousand caverns where the
