up to the night sky. ‘If aw th’ things that tooches us, my dear, was not so muddled, I should’n ha’ had’n need to coom heer. If we was not in a muddle among ourseln, I should’n ha’ been, by my own fellow weavers and workin’ brothers, so mistook. If Mr. Bounderby had ever know’d me right—if he’d ever know’d me at aw—he would’n ha’ took’n offence wi’ me. He would’n ha’ suspect’n me. But look up yonder, Rachael! Look aboove!’ Following his eyes, she saw that he was gazing at a star. [Picture: Stephen Blackpool recovered from the Old Hell Shaft] ‘It ha’ shined upon me,’ he said reverently, ‘in my pain and trouble down below. It ha’ shined into my mind. I ha’ look’n at ’t and thowt o’ thee, Rachael, till the muddle in my mind have cleared awa, above a bit, I hope. If soom ha’ been wantin’ in unnerstan’in me better, I, too, ha’ been wantin’ in unnerstan’in them better. When I got thy letter, I easily believen that what the yoong ledy sen and done to me, and what her brother sen and done to me, was one, and that there were a wicked plot betwixt ’em. When I fell, I were in anger wi’ her, an’ hurryin on t’ be as onjust t’ her as oothers was t’ me. But in our judgments, like as in our doins, we mun bear and forbear. In my pain an’ trouble, lookin up yonder,—wi’ it shinin on me—I ha’ seen more clear, and ha’ made it my dyin prayer that aw th’ world may on’y coom toogether more, an’ get a better unnerstan’in o’ one another, than when I were in ’t my own weak seln.’ Louisa hearing what he said, bent over him on the opposite side to Rachael, so that he could see her. ‘You ha’ heard?’ he said, after a few moments’ silence. ‘I ha’ not forgot you, ledy.’ ‘Yes, Stephen, I have heard you. And your prayer is mine.’ ‘You ha’ a father. Will yo tak’ a message to him?’ ‘He is here,’ said Louisa, with dread. ‘Shall I bring him to you?’ ‘If yo please.’ Louisa returned with her father. Standing hand-in-hand, they both looked down upon the solemn countenance. ‘Sir, yo will clear me an’ mak my name good wi’ aw men. This I leave to yo.’ Mr. Gradgrind was
