for babbling drabs, I would have finished as I began!” As the villain folded his arms tight together, and muttered curses on himself in the impotence of baffled malice, Mr. Brownlow turned to the terrified group beside him, and explained that the Jew, who had been his old accomplice and confidant, had a large reward for keeping Oliver ensnared: of which some part was to be given up, in the event of his being rescued: and that a dispute on this head had led to their visit to the country house for the purpose of identifying him. “The locket and ring?” said Mr. Brownlow, turning to Monks. “I bought them from the man and woman I told you of, who stole them from the nurse, who stole them from the corpse,” answered Monks without raising his eyes. “You know what became of them.” Mr. Brownlow merely nodded to Mr. Grimwig, who disappearing with great alacrity, shortly returned, pushing in Mrs. Bumble, and dragging her unwilling consort after him. “Do my hi’s deceive me!” cried Mr. Bumble, with ill-feigned enthusiasm, “or is that little Oliver? Oh O-li-ver, if you know’d how I’ve been a-grieving for you—” “Hold your tongue, fool,” murmured Mrs. Bumble. “Isn’t natur, natur, Mrs. Bumble?” remonstrated the workhouse master. “Can’t I be supposed to feel—_I_ as brought him up porochially—when I see him a-setting here among ladies and gentlemen of the very affablest description! I always loved that boy as if he’d been my—my—my own grandfather,” said Mr. Bumble, halting for an appropriate comparison. “Master Oliver, my dear, you remember the blessed gentleman in the white waistcoat? Ah! he went to heaven last week, in a oak coffin with plated handles, Oliver.” “Come, sir,” said Mr. Grimwig, tartly; “suppress your feelings.” “I will do my endeavours, sir,” replied Mr. Bumble. “How do you do, sir? I hope you are very well.” This salutation was addressed to Mr. Brownlow, who had stepped up to within a short distance of the respectable couple. He inquired, as he pointed to Monks, “Do you know that person?” “No,” replied Mrs. Bumble flatly. “Perhaps _you_ don’t?” said Mr. Brownlow, addressing her spouse. “I never saw him in all my life,” said Mr. Bumble. “Nor sold him anything, perhaps?” “No,” replied Mrs. Bumble. “You never had, perhaps, a certain gold locket and ring?” said Mr. Brownlow. “Certainly not,” replied the matron. “Why are we
