and pointed refusal. The Jew’s countenance fell. He turned from this young lady, who was gaily, not to say gorgeously attired, in a red gown, green boots, and yellow curl-papers, to the other female. “Nancy, my dear,” said the Jew in a soothing manner, “what do _you_ say?” “That it won’t do; so it’s no use a-trying it on, Fagin,” replied Nancy. “What do you mean by that?” said Mr. Sikes, looking up in a surly manner. “What I say, Bill,” replied the lady collectedly. “Why, you’re just the very person for it,” reasoned Mr. Sikes: “nobody about here knows anything of you.” “And as I don’t want ’em to, neither,” replied Nancy in the same composed manner, “it’s rather more no than yes with me, Bill.” “She’ll go, Fagin,” said Sikes. “No, she won’t, Fagin,” said Nancy. “Yes, she will, Fagin,” said Sikes. And Mr. Sikes was right. By dint of alternate threats, promises, and bribes, the lady in question was ultimately prevailed upon to undertake the commission. She was not, indeed, withheld by the same considerations as her agreeable friend; for, having recently removed into the neighborhood of Field Lane from the remote but genteel suburb of Ratcliffe, she was not under the same apprehension of being recognised by any of her numerous acquaintances. Accordingly, with a clean white apron tied over her gown, and her curl-papers tucked up under a straw bonnet,—both articles of dress being provided from the Jew’s inexhaustible stock,—Miss Nancy prepared to issue forth on her errand. “Stop a minute, my dear,” said the Jew, producing, a little covered basket. “Carry that in one hand. It looks more respectable, my dear.” “Give her a door-key to carry in her t’other one, Fagin,” said Sikes; “it looks real and genivine like.” “Yes, yes, my dear, so it does,” said the Jew, hanging a large street-door key on the forefinger of the young lady’s right hand. “There; very good! Very good indeed, my dear!” said the Jew, rubbing his hands. “Oh, my brother! My poor, dear, sweet, innocent little brother!” exclaimed Nancy, bursting into tears, and wringing the little basket and the street-door key in an agony of distress. “What has become of him! Where have they taken him to! Oh, do have pity, and tell me what’s been done with the dear boy, gentlemen; do, gentlemen, if you please, gentlemen!” Having uttered those words in
