so you must lie somewhere one night, when even I, if I am living then, shall have left you. As I am here beside you, barefoot, unclothed, undistinguishable in darkness, so must I lie through all the night of my decay, until I am dust. In the name of that time, Tom, tell me the truth now!’ ‘What is it you want to know?’ ‘You may be certain;’ in the energy of her love she took him to her bosom as if he were a child; ‘that I will not reproach you. You may be certain that I will be compassionate and true to you. You may be certain that I will save you at whatever cost. O Tom, have you nothing to tell me? Whisper very softly. Say only “yes,” and I shall understand you!’ She turned her ear to his lips, but he remained doggedly silent. ‘Not a word, Tom?’ ‘How can I say Yes, or how can I say No, when I don’t know what you mean? Loo, you are a brave, kind girl, worthy I begin to think of a better brother than I am. But I have nothing more to say. Go to bed, go to bed.’ ‘You are tired,’ she whispered presently, more in her usual way. ‘Yes, I am quite tired out.’ ‘You have been so hurried and disturbed to-day. Have any fresh discoveries been made?’ ‘Only those you have heard of, from—him.’ ‘Tom, have you said to any one that we made a visit to those people, and that we saw those three together?’ ‘No. Didn’t you yourself particularly ask me to keep it quiet when you asked me to go there with you?’ ‘Yes. But I did not know then what was going to happen.’ ‘Nor I neither. How could I?’ He was very quick upon her with this retort. ‘Ought I to say, after what has happened,’ said his sister, standing by the bed—she had gradually withdrawn herself and risen, ‘that I made that visit? Should I say so? Must I say so?’ ‘Good Heavens, Loo,’ returned her brother, ‘you are not in the habit of asking my advice. Say what you like. If you keep it to yourself, I shall keep it to _my_self. If you disclose it, there’s an end of it.’ It was too dark for either to see the other’s face; but each seemed very attentive,
