wall of a house, Oliver saw written up in pretty large letters, “Hampton.” They lingered about, in the fields, for some hours. At length they came back into the town; and, turning into an old public-house with a defaced sign-board, ordered some dinner by the kitchen fire. The kitchen was an old, low-roofed room; with a great beam across the middle of the ceiling, and benches, with high backs to them, by the fire; on which were seated several rough men in smock-frocks, drinking and smoking. They took no notice of Oliver; and very little of Sikes; and, as Sikes took very little notice of them, he and his young comrade sat in a corner by themselves, without being much troubled by their company. They had some cold meat for dinner, and sat so long after it, while Mr. Sikes indulged himself with three or four pipes, that Oliver began to feel quite certain they were not going any further. Being much tired with the walk, and getting up so early, he dozed a little at first; then, quite overpowered by fatigue and the fumes of the tobacco, fell asleep. It was quite dark when he was awakened by a push from Sikes. Rousing himself sufficiently to sit up and look about him, he found that worthy in close fellowship and communication with a labouring man, over a pint of ale. “So, you’re going on to Lower Halliford, are you?” inquired Sikes. “Yes, I am,” replied the man, who seemed a little the worse—or better, as the case might be—for drinking; “and not slow about it neither. My horse hasn’t got a load behind him going back, as he had coming up in the mornin’; and he won’t be long a-doing of it. Here’s luck to him. Ecod! he’s a good ’un!” “Could you give my boy and me a lift as far as there?” demanded Sikes, pushing the ale towards his new friend. “If you’re going directly, I can,” replied the man, looking out of the pot. “Are you going to Halliford?” “Going on to Shepperton,” replied Sikes. “I’m your man, as far as I go,” replied the other. “Is all paid, Becky?” “Yes, the other gentleman’s paid,” replied the girl. “I say!” said the man, with tipsy gravity; “that won’t do, you know.” “Why not?” rejoined Sikes. “You’re a-going to accommodate us, and wot’s to prevent my standing
