from a stick which he carried over his shoulder, a small parcel wrapped in a common handkerchief, and apparently light enough. This circumstance, added to the length of his legs, which were of unusual extent, enabled him with much ease to keep some half-dozen paces in advance of his companion, to whom he occasionally turned with an impatient jerk of the head: as if reproaching her tardiness, and urging her to greater exertion. Thus, they had toiled along the dusty road, taking little heed of any object within sight, save when they stepped aside to allow a wider passage for the mail-coaches which were whirling out of town, until they passed through Highgate archway; when the foremost traveller stopped and called impatiently to his companion, “Come on, can’t yer? What a lazybones yer are, Charlotte.” “It’s a heavy load, I can tell you,” said the female, coming up, almost breathless with fatigue. “Heavy! What are yer talking about? What are yer made for?” rejoined the male traveller, changing his own little bundle as he spoke, to the other shoulder. “Oh, there yer are, resting again! Well, if yer ain’t enough to tire anybody’s patience out, I don’t know what is!” “Is it much farther?” asked the woman, resting herself against a bank, and looking up with the perspiration streaming from her face. “Much farther! Yer as good as there,” said the long-legged tramper, pointing out before him. “Look there! Those are the lights of London.” “They’re a good two mile off, at least,” said the woman despondingly. “Never mind whether they’re two mile off, or twenty,” said Noah Claypole; for he it was; “but get up and come on, or I’ll kick yer, and so I give yer notice.” As Noah’s red nose grew redder with anger, and as he crossed the road while speaking, as if fully prepared to put his threat into execution, the woman rose without any further remark, and trudged onward by his side. “Where do you mean to stop for the night, Noah?” she asked, after they had walked a few hundred yards. “How should I know?” replied Noah, whose temper had been considerably impaired by walking. “Near, I hope,” said Charlotte. “No, not near,” replied Mr. Claypole. “There! Not near; so don’t think it.” “Why not?” “When I tell yer that I don’t mean to do a thing, that’s enough, without any why or
