the neighbouring fields; for his horse was tied to the meadow side of the fence, within a few paces. ‘My dearest love,’ said he, ‘what could I do? Knowing you were alone, was it possible that I could stay away?’ ‘You may hang your head, to make yourself the more attractive; _I_ don’t know what they see in you when you hold it up,’ thought Mrs. Sparsit; ‘but you little think, my dearest love, whose eyes are on you!’ That she hung her head, was certain. She urged him to go away, she commanded him to go away; but she neither turned her face to him, nor raised it. Yet it was remarkable that she sat as still as ever the amiable woman in ambuscade had seen her sit, at any period in her life. Her hands rested in one another, like the hands of a statue; and even her manner of speaking was not hurried. ‘My dear child,’ said Harthouse; Mrs. Sparsit saw with delight that his arm embraced her; ‘will you not bear with my society for a little while?’ ‘Not here.’ ‘Where, Louisa? ‘Not here.’ ‘But we have so little time to make so much of, and I have come so far, and am altogether so devoted, and distracted. There never was a slave at once so devoted and ill-used by his mistress. To look for your sunny welcome that has warmed me into life, and to be received in your frozen manner, is heart-rending.’ ‘Am I to say again, that I must be left to myself here?’ ‘But we must meet, my dear Louisa. Where shall we meet?’ They both started. The listener started, guiltily, too; for she thought there was another listener among the trees. It was only rain, beginning to fall fast, in heavy drops. ‘Shall I ride up to the house a few minutes hence, innocently supposing that its master is at home and will be charmed to receive me?’ ‘No!’ ‘Your cruel commands are implicitly to be obeyed; though I am the most unfortunate fellow in the world, I believe, to have been insensible to all other women, and to have fallen prostrate at last under the foot of the most beautiful, and the most engaging, and the most imperious. My dearest Louisa, I cannot go myself, or let you go, in this hard abuse of your power.’ Mrs. Sparsit saw him
