several times, Noah rubbed his eyes, and, giving a heavy yawn, looked sleepily about him. “Tell me that again—once again, just for him to hear,” said the Jew, pointing to Sikes as he spoke. “Tell yer what?” asked the sleepy Noah, shaking himself pettishly. “That about— _Nancy_,” said Fagin, clutching Sikes by the wrist, as if to prevent his leaving the house before he had heard enough. “You followed her?” “Yes.” “To London Bridge?” “Yes.” “Where she met two people.” “So she did.” “A gentleman and a lady that she had gone to of her own accord before, who asked her to give up all her pals, and Monks first, which she did—and to describe him, which she did—and to tell her what house it was that we meet at, and go to, which she did—and where it could be best watched from, which she did—and what time the people went there, which she did. She did all this. She told it all every word without a threat, without a murmur—she did—did she not?” cried Fagin, half mad with fury. “All right,” replied Noah, scratching his head. “That’s just what it was!” “What did they say, about last Sunday?” “About last Sunday!” replied Noah, considering. “Why I told yer that before.” “Again. Tell it again!” cried Fagin, tightening his grasp on Sikes, and brandishing his other hand aloft, as the foam flew from his lips. “They asked her,” said Noah, who, as he grew more wakeful, seemed to have a dawning perception who Sikes was, “they asked her why she didn’t come, last Sunday, as she promised. She said she couldn’t.” “Why—why? Tell him that.” “Because she was forcibly kept at home by Bill, the man she had told them of before,” replied Noah. “What more of him?” cried Fagin. “What more of the man she had told them of before? Tell him that, tell him that.” “Why, that she couldn’t very easily get out of doors unless he knew where she was going to,” said Noah; “and so the first time she went to see the lady, she—ha! ha! ha! it made me laugh when she said it, that it did—she gave him a drink of laudanum.” “Hell’s fire!” cried Sikes, breaking fiercely from the Jew. “Let me go!” Flinging the old man from him, he rushed from the room, and darted, wildly and furiously, up the stairs. “Bill,
