know how little I do claim, but I will go that length. You have done so much for him, you are so fond of him; your whole life, Mrs. Bounderby, expresses such charming self-forgetfulness on his account—pardon me again—I am running wide of the subject. I am interested in him for his own sake.’ She had made the slightest action possible, as if she would have risen in a hurry and gone away. He had turned the course of what he said at that instant, and she remained. ‘Mrs. Bounderby,’ he resumed, in a lighter manner, and yet with a show of effort in assuming it, which was even more expressive than the manner he dismissed; ‘it is no irrevocable offence in a young fellow of your brother’s years, if he is heedless, inconsiderate, and expensive—a little dissipated, in the common phrase. Is he?’ ‘Yes.’ ‘Allow me to be frank. Do you think he games at all?’ ‘I think he makes bets.’ Mr. Harthouse waiting, as if that were not her whole answer, she added, ‘I know he does.’ ‘Of course he loses?’ ‘Yes.’ ‘Everybody does lose who bets. May I hint at the probability of your sometimes supplying him with money for these purposes?’ She sat, looking down; but, at this question, raised her eyes searchingly and a little resentfully. ‘Acquit me of impertinent curiosity, my dear Mrs. Bounderby. I think Tom may be gradually falling into trouble, and I wish to stretch out a helping hand to him from the depths of my wicked experience.—Shall I say again, for his sake? Is that necessary?’ She seemed to try to answer, but nothing came of it. ‘Candidly to confess everything that has occurred to me,’ said James Harthouse, again gliding with the same appearance of effort into his more airy manner; ‘I will confide to you my doubt whether he has had many advantages. Whether—forgive my plainness—whether any great amount of confidence is likely to have been established between himself and his most worthy father.’ ‘I do not,’ said Louisa, flushing with her own great remembrance in that wise, ‘think it likely.’ ‘Or, between himself, and—I may trust to your perfect understanding of my meaning, I am sure—and his highly esteemed brother-in-law.’ She flushed deeper and deeper, and was burning red when she replied in a fainter voice, ‘I do not think that likely, either.’ ‘Mrs. Bounderby,’ said Harthouse,
