them; and, at last, made himself talk nonsense very agreeably. They were looking over views in Swisserland. “As soon as my aunt gets well, I shall go abroad,” said he. “I shall never be easy till I have seen some of these places. You will have my sketches, some time or other, to look at—or my tour to read—or my poem. I shall do something to expose myself.” “That may be—but not by sketches in Swisserland. You will never go to Swisserland. Your uncle and aunt will never allow you to leave England.” “They may be induced to go too. A warm climate may be prescribed for her. I have more than half an expectation of our all going abroad. I assure you I have. I feel a strong persuasion, this morning, that I shall soon be abroad. I ought to travel. I am tired of doing nothing. I want a change. I am serious, Miss Woodhouse, whatever your penetrating eyes may fancy—I am sick of England—and would leave it to-morrow, if I could.” “You are sick of prosperity and indulgence. Cannot you invent a few hardships for yourself, and be contented to stay?” “_I_ sick of prosperity and indulgence! You are quite mistaken. I do not look upon myself as either prosperous or indulged. I am thwarted in every thing material. I do not consider myself at all a fortunate person.” “You are not quite so miserable, though, as when you first came. Go and eat and drink a little more, and you will do very well. Another slice of cold meat, another draught of Madeira and water, will make you nearly on a par with the rest of us.” “No—I shall not stir. I shall sit by you. You are my best cure.” “We are going to Box Hill to-morrow;—you will join us. It is not Swisserland, but it will be something for a young man so much in want of a change. You will stay, and go with us?” “No, certainly not; I shall go home in the cool of the evening.” “But you may come again in the cool of to-morrow morning.” “No—It will not be worth while. If I come, I shall be cross.” “Then pray stay at Richmond.” “But if I do, I shall be crosser still. I can never bear to think of you all there without me.” “These are difficulties which you must settle for yourself. Chuse your own degree of crossness. I shall press you no more.” The rest of the party were now returning, and all were soon collected. With some there was great joy at the sight of Frank Churchill; others took it very composedly; but there was a very general distress and disturbance on Miss Fairfax’s disappearance being explained. That it was time for every body to go, concluded the subject; and with a short final arrangement for the next day’s scheme, they parted. Frank Churchill’s little inclination to exclude himself increased so much, that his last words to Emma were, “Well;—if _you_ wish me to stay and join the party, I will.” She smiled her acceptance; and nothing less than a summons from Richmond was to take him back before the following evening. CHAPTER VII They had a very fine day for Box Hill; and all the other outward circumstances of arrangement, accommodation, and punctuality, were in favour of a pleasant party. Mr. Weston directed the whole, officiating safely between Hartfield and the Vicarage, and every body was in good time. Emma and Harriet went together; Miss Bates and her niece, with the Eltons; the gentlemen on
